This is Jocco podcast number 209 with echo Charles and me joccal willink
Good evening, echo. Good evening
We are crafty
We are rogues. We are no ordinary men
We've often got our black moods for we are Legionnaires
In Tonkin the immortal Legion honored our flag at Tenguan
Here is of camera on and model brothers
Sleep in peace in your tombs
Our ancestors knew to die for the glory of the Legion
We will know to perish according to tradition
During our far off campaigns facing fever and fire
Let us forget along with our hardships death
Which forgets us so little
for we are
The Legion
And those right there are the verses
To the famous song
Le Boudin
Which is I think the most famous of the songs of the French foreign Legion
And the French foreign Legion is a
famous
Howlode military organization with a hitch a history steeped in traditions of bravery and courage
And there's a lot of mistake around it
It's also a very unique organization because the men of the French foreign Legion
Generally are not French
And one of their models which kind of reflects that is
Lazyotatria Nostra which translates to the Legion is our fatherland
And when I was a kid growing up I was always kind of you hear I heard about the French foreign Legion
And there was definitely a reputation of the kind of the reputation is that
You could be
Just a criminal somewhere and a scape prison
And get to France and you could join the French foreign Legion and that's what that's what the French foreign Legion was filled with
So that always had that kind of
Misty around it and or around it and I read a book
A long time ago called Legionnaire by Simon Murray which is a
Great book and gives an incredible account and Simon Murray is a fascinating guy and I read another book
That was called mouthful of rocks
Which was by a guy named Christian Jennings and that one was is actually from a guy that the main
The main theme of that book was do not join the French foreign Legion
He was a deserter who ended up leaving it but but those books definitely left an impression on me about the French foreign Legion
But today we're actually going to review another book
By a Legionnaire. It's called a pel
A French a Canadian in the French foreign Legion. It's written by a guy named Joel Strothers
And it just turns out that we are lucky enough to have Joel here with us
To discuss his book and his
Experiences as a Legionnaire so Joel
Welcome to the show man. Thank you, sir. It's an honor. Joel. Yeah, thanks for coming down
It's uh, how did you end up?
Did you send me this book how did this connect? I did. I've uh, I've obviously watched your familiar with your
Your history, your name and the the podcast and yeah, it was a hell Mary. I thought maybe a cinema book
And maybe I you take interest in the uh in the subject matter
Um, yeah, as you know marketing books these days it takes a lot of the efforts on the the right of themselves. They author so
That was uh
Yeah, my objective was it to get it to you and hopefully this would happen here we are and again
I'm very appreciative. Yeah, no, it's a great book and I mean I've like I said
Open it up the the French foreign Legion has such a mistake about it
That the opportunity to sit down with someone that did time and
And served and fought with the French foreign Legion seemed to me a awesome opportunity
So um
So yeah, that's that's where it starts and speaking of where it starts. Let's get to let's get to it, man
Let's get to your start. Let's do it
Do I say the word right a pal? Yep, that's a question a pill
Which basically means
It's what we get America we call quarters or like a
A stand to attention the roll call yeah roll calls like that, but it doesn't it literally means stop your foot or something like that
It could also be used as a call out
um, double word
Yeah, and eating you just yell a pal and then it comes and yeah, you're encounter four
Okay, I don't got it and that's what it's
Don't leave you so yeah for now check all right, so let's get to let's get to the book here a little bit
You say my parents met as students at Canadian forces base
Pettawaw Pettawaw and Ontario Canada and
Started dating in grade 11 as a son of a fighter pilot in the Canadian Air Force
I lived an inner-and-life style moving from one CFB to another
1989 when my father retired as the commanding officer of
441 tactical fighter squadron CFB cold lake Alberta
We settled down in British Columbia Canada, so you grew up kind of military brat is what we call this right
I spent most of my time in Germany
I'd have flew the the 104 the the widow maker. Oh really yeah, and then retired as a full current or a leg-conalsory
They see 0 for 1 F-18s
So yeah, it was every three years we would move
Did you have any brothers or sisters no said one solo operations loan wolf
Probably explains a lot
From my earliest days I remember being interested in everything in the military at school
I spent most of my time in classes drawing castles tanks and airplanes
Is there anyone that didn't do that echo way you might be the one
I think I think doctors and lawyers were the ones you didn't I did that yeah, yeah, I mean it's just like tanks
Air planes battleships still job pretty good just wars yeah, I trust you can
I visited countless museums and castles and played an old trenches and bunkers all over Europe once I found a key
In a tower of the wall city of the Moroffenburg in Bavaria
I was certainly what opened a dungeon my fascination with the military deepened with age
So did my interest in sports my mother was very athletic she enrolled me from an early age in soccer basketball judo swimming in hockey
How much judo?
No enough
Good answer there can never be enough, but will you were you serious about judo?
No hockey took over pretty much early on. Oh, that's right your Canadian. Yeah, it was just like hockey or nothing
She was also an an avid animal lover and I became one to aside from my mother my role models were predominantly
fighter pilots and soldiers my dad and his friends as well as his dad his friend as well as my friends dad's and my grandfather's
Even my hockey coaches were soldiers the military was in my blood and you actually I skipped over it
But you actually have deep military blood in your family and so that was seem like it seemed like you got those jeans
Yeah, for sure I definitely in the DNA somewhere
Yeah, yeah after my first season playing triple a hockey I was invited the Western hockey leagues
Rijina paths try out camp
But my parents didn't let me attend because my school marks were too low the fact that I had been expelled from
High School for a week for fighting held help my cause so you were
I'm taking it you weren't exactly the model of behavior as a child
Um, yeah, I don't know I mean I wasn't a bad kid about seating but I think I hit an age as we all do where I started to try to push barriers and figure out what I was made of
And being a hockey fan there were certain type players that I
Respected or I wanted to emulate and I didn't necessarily have the the size or the chin to do so
So my game kind of changed unfortunately for me, but yeah, that's kind of the the early onset to
Apel is a young man trying to figure out what he's capable of and who he is now
It's weird to that you know you had your dad was a who's he say he was a full-karner like
Retentic on a retired like some kids that are grow up in that atmosphere
They become kind of on the straight narrow path and you know what I mean and then some kids have a little bit of that
Rebellion in them it sounds like you were a little bit more on the rebellion side
Yeah, possibly
But they they check that and I think deep down I knew what was I was wrong like I was braze properly had you know good parents
But as you do you check you check yourself and you try to figure out what you're made of and
Yeah, I figured out that that wasn't me. I wasn't you know
About as per say
Certainly wasn't gonna make the NHL with my my size of my hands of chin
You you go on a little bit about this you know you talk about getting ejected for fighting a lot from hockey games
And then you say that the trouble started when I was fresh out of Langley secondary school without hockey experience a loss of direction
Amit's mix of immaturity trying to impress friends and girls and reacting to other idiots
All took their toll. I was hanging out the wrong crowd and these so-called friends were leading me nowhere
The final twist in my downward spiral came when I was confronted by a RCMP
Real Canadian mountain police special investigation officer revolver drawn I
Was lucky I didn't end up in prison. What what what happened check?
I don't think the why matters or the what it's more the why it was it was nothing
You know, I'm sure imagination to a flow. There is no it's not drug related. It's not you know anything
But it was dumb enough that the police took interest in my
My association with there's certain people and you know, I wasn't I wasn't charged or I think but it was it was a good kick in the ass
Experienced sitting down with my father who was visibly upset at the fact that potentially I'd be going to jail
ruin your life and that yeah
That's some straight seeing that reaction was sobering I guess we'd be the word and from there I took took ownership and
There you go good call. Yeah. This is this is a big point
You know you say here I realized that I needed to change and fast so I contacted the Canadian Armed Forces recruitment center in Vancouver
Unfortunately the Canadian Armed Forces were no longer accepting applicants for regular force infantry positions
My only option was to join a Canadian reserve unit and hope to be at the front of the recruitment line when the regular forces started to expand
so I mean you get to this point and this is
Man, it's so
You're lucky, right you're lucky. You're actually lucky that this guy drew down on you you're lucky that you did something bad enough
To get you to a point where you said all right, this is not gonna end well and
Not every kid gets that opportunity and it'd be nice
if
a kid like listening to this right now
Can foresee that they're gonna end up in that position and just go okay
You know what I need to do change. I need to make a change right now because I know man the best thing that happened in my life was joining the military
I would have been a total loser. I would have just ended up
Doing I was just doing dumb stuff and I would have just continued down that path and I don't know if I had a
A moment in time like you did where I said okay, I got to stop this but I definitely looked around at the people I was hanging around with and said yeah
This isn't gonna end up well
It'd be nice if
kids that are
19 years old instead of waiting for that moment to arrive
Where they realize that a they're not as smart as I think they are and
Be the direction that they're heading is not gonna end up well that they go, you know what?
I need to kind of change direction here and boy the military offers especially I mean it's it's crazy too
Like in Canada
You can't even join regular force infantry. I mean let's face in America
I'm not saying you can be they'll take anyone but if you want to be a grunt in the army or the Marine Corps
Like there's a decent chance that you can do it. Yeah, fair one and this keep mine this is early 90s
So nothing was going on the government at the time was you know checking their their budgets
So it was cost cutting
So yeah, there wasn't an opportunity to go right for us. There was other positions like a radar tech or 80
But I wasn't you know, I'm for child a VHA's VHS tape of hamburger Hill and I watched the share of that thing and I was all about the infantry
You know and my grandfather who's my dad's dad
Third wave Juno Beach he had given me I didn't put in the book
But he'd given me a jump smog from 100 first airborne
Soldier pre-d day so when they're in England training and I wore I wore that and I think that was the
The jump in me that you know, I mean I was but
Yeah, I agree to your point the military certainly the Legion
Got my shit together and that's a big reason for the book as I owe the Legion and France a lot for myself for
How it it changed my life and that was my effort was to do so there give something back. I'll be at small
It's certainly showed my appreciation so when you sign up you said you said you say I signed up with the Royal Westminster Regiment
Westies based in New Westminster British Columbia
The other Westies were assigned to support Canadian airborne regimen setting me on the path to become a fair trip or something
I was interested in so this is you you're a reserveist. That's correct. You still go to boot camp
Yeah, you do the same battle school basic is different, but you go into the same battle school
And from there you'd support the PPC li if they had any taskings
Overseas or whatever he would be that's the way the Canadian military was working
They would be one third percent would be reservist militian in our case
So that that was the objective and then if positions came available for a rig force
You would be top the list to get into the get-in there and then they end up what they end up disbanding this regimen
Yeah, so Somalia they're a Canadian airborne regimen. They had that incident in Somalia and it resulted in the mean
Which incident? Yeah, they there was a
They caught a local trying to steal food and it's either cap and he was
I think it was four soldiers
They tortured them and in the anti-Hey died and that got into the media and obviously as a result the government
Disbanded the complete regimen
So while that was happening all jump courses were put on standby and us as a regimen
We were retasked to be anti-tank
Basically which was a hard
Moment for the regiment and what was an obviously appealing and for me that was you know, I was I was going
That was a fun so you you mentally checked out
And I called to actually I called the Marine Corps recruiter and
Yeah, and the
What they can Canadian student well at the time know you'd have to go through the whole process of applying for a green card
So it take he said like two years man, huh? So I was like, you know, you're young and
Zero patients two years is like the rest of your entire life. You can't ever wait two years
But you could do it actually so if there's a young Canadian right now that's thinking Marine Corps
Well, I think now it's a lot easier
But again at the time there wasn't a lot going on so they're a little more selective, but yeah, that's what I was told two years minimum
All right, so then you say during my time at P.P.C.L.I. Battle School one of our NCOs
mentioned that a colleague of his had recently returned from France after serving in the French Foreign Legion's parachute regimen
I was intrigued true. I'd heard of the Legion before but never really thought more of it or took it seriously to be honest
But more recently the idea of being able to join an airborne regimen in a foreign country peak my sense of adventure
Something that was seriously lacking in my life
I eventually wrote to the French Foreign Legion's headquarters in France expressing my interest in joining this brought a quick reply from the Legion
So so you wrote a you write them a letter. Yep, and then they write you back
So I actually went down to the French consulate in Vancouver and
Went to the front desk and asked the question kind of a strange look that I got back from the nicely, but they gave me an address and
Yeah, I wrote a letter and letter came back with all the
Information needed to to join so I read that a million times and
Yeah, I was like I'm going
How do you say the Legion in charge air in French?
It's les gens et le tronjais. Oh god, I'm not even tried. I'm not gonna try it
So the French Foreign Legion is no-no world over
And fix in the poppy the minds and our images of Legionnaires wearing the characteristic white kept is that right kept
Kepty caps trudging across African deserts on a merciless son to defend and outpost
These men were petty thieves and criminals with dark paths as well as deserters from
Foreign armies who had found a new home and
Life in the ranks of the Legion some would call these men mercenaries what caught my attention?
No, we're history books filled with black and white pictures of the legions first battalion
a torn jadr they parachutists
Nailed it so did you say be here to say bap that
So the first bet and the second battalion a torn jadr
They parachutists or second bap jumping in French in Do China
The Legion I was interested in joining had evolved into a modern elite fighting force
So I was racist and not willing to settle for average life my mind was made up
I was going to join the French Foreign Legion
Dad looked at me sternly and shook my hand. He wished me locks saying call us when you get the chance
I made my way to the train station to continue my journey to Stratzburg France
Second thoughts anxiety and excitement were fighting in my mind, but there was no way I was turning back
And I always have to say this obviously I'm not reading this whole book right now. I'm skipping over big chunks
Where you have really interesting details you kind of spell it out like your dad was
airline pilots you had the opportunity to get over there and
This is when you get and then the reason I think I highlighted this was because once again
I think a lot of people that listen to this are
Well, they're young
Individuals thinking about joined the military. I was gonna say young men, but I just met a female in Australia
That was like oh, I joined the Air Force because you're podcast. I'm in the Air Force right now
She's like from listening to your podcast. I was like, well, that's awesome. So young people
When they're thinking about joined the military and
They have exactly what you have second thoughts anxiety and
Excitement we're all fighting because you're excited to do it, but then you're scared you're nervous
So
There's I think I guess my point in saying this is that it's pretty normal to have those feelings true
I'll be at I'm in France. I can't go home. So there's that difference
If I may interject my grandfather my mum's dad who retired a three-star
Before I left he
He was my hero as I mentioned the other book
one the DSO
He had said to me are you sure any and when I said yes, I'm sure this is what I'm doing so well if you do go there and represent your country well
So I always had that in the back of mind as you know as soon as I knocked on that door
I was representing Canada somewhat
And yeah, but I as I you know I mentioned the book I said there across the street for a good chunk of time looking at that door
Thinking damn I've got myself
Quite the situation here, but time to pull through
Yeah
You're at the Straussburg train station wave down a taxi driver and rusty French explain how good was your French?
I took at the Canadian military school system and his French immersion
So I took which is basically half English half French. I took that to create it
So I had a good base which I think was a huge factor in my decision to go that's a challenge
It's if you don't speak the language in rusty French explain my destination in the driver the legions recruitment depot
Look looking surprised he turned to me and asked are you certain? La Liseon is a tough life when I said yes
He replied you crazy
Then he turned back around put the car and gear and accelerated into Straussburg's evening traffic
How proud were you to say take me to the Legion?
I mean when I was a kid I remember we got this uh when we got done with the dive phase of seal training
They gave us this little the US Navy qualified diver card and it and the specification
I think it said
5320 which meant we were in still in training because 5326 would be year a seal
But 5320 and then it said like in parentheses something like combat diver and so we got this card
I mean I'm Nike years old and I pretty much thought I was a cool as a guy
Like if somebody needed to see my ID
Maybe I'd have to use that for that
But even just that right there of yeah feeling how did that feel I think it was more thinking about what's what's coming next
Gonna really give a shit about the touchy drum
Me I wanted to impress that taxing
Take me to the Legion
Um, the yeah man when you're 1918 you're dumb. Well, maybe you were you sounds like you were supposed to be smarter than I was about
I was 22
I was a little bit older service for a little bit. But I wasn't I was still dumb
Yeah, there's no question
The Straussburg Legion recruitment depot was a first world war era whitewash three story building facing a large playground
Partially abandoned barracks. It's now used as a post that recruitment the l'Aligion they call jac
My saying that yes, sir
With the cold war over there was no longer a need for the large military units and therefore sprawling military barracks
The entrance to the PR LE was a metal door
Set into a three meter high wall top of the razor wire a solitary light cleared down from above
Inscribed on the door with three words
L'Aigio patria nostra. How do you say that?
L'Aigion patria nostra. Okay, the Legion is our father land
Which is a which is a bold statement, you know, it's their way of saying
You're gonna be from all these different countries and
But those aren't those aren't your father land anymore your father lives are over the Legion. Yeah
Sir, yeah, then you talked about your stalling sitting across the street looking at the door
Knowing that after you go in there suck it up
I just go for you. Game all this way, but yeah, I definitely how long do you sit there for?
I think it was even more than an hour enough time to get bored sitting there
Yeah last moments of freedom how much intel did you have not much because that was the issues is pre-internet really
There was Legion air that you mentioned the book which had red and that was definitely a a big part of my joining
I read them off full of rocks, but again as you mentioned, dessert didn't take into account
That was just you know, so on writing their own narrative and then the history books
You know seeing the the beps jumping into China and then Algeria that for me was the
The main I guess history and knowledge that I could gain and from there was just mostly visually
Not a cool ongoing. Yeah, it wasn't a ton of
Of anymore what about intel as far as what the indoctrination phases were gonna be like I didn't know much
Whatever the books talked about and all that being said Legion. I was a 60s
That was the French endow China early F French Algerian war
So time it passed, but I didn't know much. Yeah, that was the big
Question mark is what comes next same for me. You're on a seal training nowadays
Obviously you can pretty much observe seal training on YouTube
You can see what's going on. I had no no zero idea
There was one like 15 minute video that the recruiter would show, but it didn't show you very much
And I don't know whether that's better or worse because you don't even know you just
You just like you said you get ready to suck it up and just whatever they throw at me is fine
You have
You can't even look at the long term suffering because you even know what it's what's gonna come so
And at that age we don't we don't think much far ahead
Do he had just more action yeah, no, and I messed up as I was saying before we started recording like I didn't care
Yeah, what they were gonna do to me. It didn't didn't matter
Even if they were even if they were gonna kill me it was like, okay, well, bring it yeah
At that point I didn't know too that this wasn't a given you don't just show up and join
They take everybody there was a selection process. I think the big one for me was you know get in
Because I didn't want to go back with my tail between my legs and getting in you know
That would be a huge
Yeah
Yes, you know you don't want to see go back into your grandfather. Yeah, I didn't even get in the fridge for
So here we go. I stood up enough stalling. I told myself I crossed the street walk to the door
Ring the doorbell it didn't make any noise after what seemed like minutes a large man taller than me and a lot more imposing
Dressed and khaki green army combat uniform finally opened the door
Yes, I see my passport. I handed it to him you join Legion. He asked a broken English. We I replied
He glanced at my passport again Canadian. We and
So then you roll in and
They put in a video cassette that was given you basically the outline of the Legion's history
Yeah, they had a cassette for every language in the old VHS machine
I will TV and he's set there for whatever took 25 minutes and he just watched their presentation on
Well, you're both a join. Yeah, so that was actually my first real bit of
Lessons on the on the totality of what the Legion was
But in it there was you know shots of the the rep jumping and so I was just like yeah, that's we're good
Let's I don't need to watch this tape. You got it. You're not gonna say shift to the
No, you're gonna put it in
Carries on a bit why do you want to join the Legion? I want a soldier. I replied
No one can do a poker face like a foreign Legion recruitment enceo without speaking
He placed a document in front of me that stated my acceptance into the prevolent to your face the legions initial five-year contract
He motioned for me to sign it marking my first major step into the ranks of the Legion
I was aware of the initial five-year commitment the letter I received from the Legion prior to flying to France clearly
Outwind what was expected without hesitation
I leaned forward and signed the document. It was September 8th
So there you go you're in
Ish
Well you're in for
For if you make it through the selection phase. Yeah, correct. Yeah, that's just a little bit
Yeah, yeah, and the weird thing is you're in I mean we'll talk more about it
But there's people deserving all the time like just like just leaving. Yeah escaping basically
Which is kind of funny. Yeah
Because any and you know you
Well cover it, but
You don't want a guy that that wants to leave. You don't want a guy that's not doesn't want to be there to be there
No, and they've been doing this for a long time
They know what it takes and the right type of candidate to choose so that's the first step
They look at the basic information that they have and they go from there and they've been fairly successful
Oh, what they do? So
So now you go to Obanya Obanya Obanya
Oh, buying. Oh, buying. So they do a pre-medical exam prior to that
So they really check the sound of body and all that kind of stuff to make sure that you physically fit and then off you go to Obanya
And did you say did you say broke like if you had broken bones you couldn't join? Yeah bad teeth was a big one too
Yeah, they look for the basics and he scars showing your previous injuries when you mean bad teeth like crooked teeth
Yeah, I don't know what exactly look for but they spent a lot of time
We send a dentist chair and they go they go at it and guys were were cut because they had teeth now
I don't know if that shows bad bone structure bad DNA or it's gonna cause them problems down the road where they have to do dental work
But especially overseas. I think that's they take teeth into consideration
Oh, yeah
Yeah
So now you end up in Obanya correct. I'm getting there, right? That's correct. Yeah
We joined groups of volunteers from other recruitment centers numbering well over a hundred and lined up in single file on the parade square
opposite the basement entrance of a single story building
Our wallets money and watches were taken away and sealed inside individually labeled
Manila envelopes closed and shoes were also taken from us and stored either in military duffle bags or if deemed adequate
Arceviline bags we were then issued personal toiletries t-shirts a pair of white sports shorts
Socks underwear a single towel and a small padlock for a personal locker in the barracks rooms
Those without proper running shoes were handed hard sold a deedess runners
Around us men were speaking in a variety of languages unfamiliar to me all orders were another information
We're given in French and quickly translated to out to the others by those who understood
So this is your kind of a standard boot camp scenario. We're gonna get rid of your
Get rid of your individuality somewhat still at the recruiting phase
So we're not even when you do get chosen you go off and do your basic which is four months at another regiment
This is just screening really get a still screen. Yeah, so all the different recruitment
Sites of the heaven France they all ship the volunteers to O'Buyne and then there they
They start doing their triage basically would be the right word and from there they'll do their
selection background checks more medical stuff physical fitness
Reviews and from there they'll pick their their Legionnaires
Or to be yeah to be attempted correct. Oh the final phase of the evaluation referred to as the Gestapo was the most discussed among potential recruits
The officer and NCOs conducting that this phase were from the Legionnaires
Internal security
This immediately dispelled one of the Legion's greatest myths no questions asked in fact the Gestapo asked plenty of questions and dug deep clearing our names through
Interpol so that what I was saying earlier about how you could be this random criminal and just go join the French foreign Legion in your past as race
It's not like that apparently not anymore originally back when it was initially
Designed it was to have soldiers to go to France as your rework that word French so they would take whoever they could or
They would give criminals the opportunity to not serve the time and prison and join the Legion
But you know as the Legion grew and became a little more professional and a part of the French military
Then it was it was a different system they basically selected what they could the best of what showed up
So this is the the process they start doing there
Through background checks and make sure that you you need a valid passport obviously
No major criminal fences and then have the physical
Attributes to make a good soldier and they take one in one in 12. I think when I was there
One in 12 applicants get through now. It's more 115. Wow. Yeah, so that's one in 12 that actually show up. Yeah, correct
Yeah, the biggest groups hailed from the former eastern block countries Russia Poland Ukraine
Romania hung hungry Slovakia and Czech Republic. We commonly we commonly refer to them as a
Comunists the communist
Which I got to take out of this is what the United States so the walls come down
There's a lot of guys coming down to join just to get a I'm yield ticket and to get out of tough times up up across the
field wall yeah
When they get done when you get done do you do you become a French citizen when you're done you can apply
I didn't for example, but yeah, you can apply it's not a given if you're injured in battle
You are given French citizenship
But yeah, most of the people will apply after five years and they're pretty they're pretty good at it issuing
Three weeks in it was a great relief that I was called out of the ranks with several others and issued secondhand combat pants jacket
About boots our heads were shaved and we moved to a cramp smelly building in the volunteer compound which
Which we spent our time trying to clean a few days later
We were several of us from the group were issued a red plastic epilet
We were now rouge signifying that we had passed the Legion recruitment process and we were bound for basic training now known as
Lays aruges
We passed individually before a kernel in the regiments HQ to sign our initial five-year contract with the Legion
We also received our Legion service numbers mine was
1-8-5-6-8-9
Yes, so we're through so I'm in and that was probably the worst part of my experience in the Legion. I thought it was about experience
But that was definitely the the least enjoyable. We're just the whole yeah the atmosphere and processing if I don't know what prisons like
But that was kind of my my go to experience yeah, you know, they're just a bunch of me the heads around everyone's kind of you don't know what's happening
Yeah, it was taking one out of every 12. Yeah, yeah, and then every day
There'll be a roll call the yellow and a whole bunch of names and those guys you're out you just go off to the side to go back and get your kit and those send you back to your original
Spot that you applied and that's it you're done so every day you'd be in roll call and you've just hoping your name didn't get going and how long was this time period?
It took about a month for this to happen now
It varies and then there's another you say at this point a Legion myth was dispelled
for a short administrative period of time we were
Olm's songs norm men without names and those who needed an alias would be provided with one
And so that so you used to be that you could just go in there and change your name and it sounds like you still could if you wanted to
Yeah, but it's not mandatory exactly so for the Eastern countries
It's illegal for them to serve in a foreign military
So for that reason the legal issue them a false name
Typically a Swiss based on a Swiss passport Canadian passport and
They use that for a duration of their career before they can go through an administrative process to get their name back
In my case I was Canadian that's not an issue so I kept my name
So but if the country finds out what that name was and they call an astleagent is you know Simon Murray
In your ranks thought off to say yes
So it's up to you to the main tandy and a minute. You guys would be the work
It was a lot of me how quickly I'd become detached from my previous life and tethered to a new one that was still being shaped while cleaning the center
Two guys in our group were caught speaking Polish to each other although talking in any language besides French had been accepted over the past few weeks
We soon learned that it was no longer tolerated to demonstrate his displeasure a corporal need one of the polls in his midsection and then ordered him to do pushups while he was doing pushups the corporal
Kicked him in his ribs demanding that he pick up the pace
This was our first taste of the legions discipline and a revelation
Indeed, so yeah our corporal's a sergeant and our corporal showed up from the catch-brem
Allure which is the training regimen that will be going to and this is them taking us for run and
Or take us out and that's where we see the first sign of what's to come
It was interesting. I thought it was actually kind of kind of cool
I don't know that sounds right, but it's more like yeah, this is you know yeah my experience in Canadian military was was good
But it wasn't
Tough if that's the right word and this seemed to me like the right attitude and plus you just spent like
Whatever three or four weeks in this kind of jail scenario and
Not doing any real training and all of a sudden it's starting it's starting exactly so you got momentum
It's you're going you're in the right direction. So it's it's all good is it?
Interesting that
That that's just in your mind you're thinking right on
Because that's what I'm saying good. I'm like yeah, or especially if they deserve it. Yeah, yeah, well for sure
Yeah, and it's as I said they they know what to do and this is how they weed out the
The week or those that aren't meant to be there if you can't handle
Need of the gut and some kicks of the side, you know, look at you in the trenches and shit goes wrong
Yeah, we're good at you in life as that
Oh, yeah
Awesome now
Let's see I think this is when you get to a castel correct saying that right yep
So the castel is this is where sort of where's starting that is the drill train
Yeah, great basic training our first lesson in how life would be as a recruiting castel came via a ritual known as a pal
All 25 of us lined up in the hallway along the wall shoulders touching
We then countered off in French each yelling the number the next number in succession
To ensure all section members were present and accounted for the corporal per proud up and down the ranks and
Flicting immediate punishment in the form of a slap to the face or a need of the stomach if there was a miss count at one point
Alistair after receiving a verbal lashing and a hard open-handed slap across the face for getting his number wrong said to the corporal
But I don't speak French corporal. I couldn't help but laugh just a little
It's the French foreign Legion after all. I was damn lucky to have basic French knowledge on my side
A pal would become a routine in our our lives. It's intent was to quickly identify anyone who might have decided to
Desert it was also a fast and effective way to gather a section together to issue orders our first morning a pal
Alistair and a Norwegian were missing
Deserted apparently they had jumped the regiment wall just hours prior this seems strange to me like what had they been expecting with basic training
They hadn't even lasted 24 hours in castel
Morning new to night our section now 23 men would form up and march from the company barracks to the mess hall
A corporal would set the pace calling out the slow Legion pace at 88 steps per minute
During the first few days are attempt to maintain the timing as well as the proper intervals between our rows were
Ragged in hindsight. It was comical the other corporals positioned at our size attempted to instill order by yelling at us and hitting anyone who fell out of step
Whether being struck and shouted at helped anyone improve was debatable
So this is where it kicks off and if you see the French foreign Legion marching you guys march at
88 beats per minute, which is which is like a third maybe or a quarter slower than the normal yeah correct march
Yeah
Is that is that harder
Is that out of sync with normal walking pit is yeah, I think that's the challenge as you got to slow yourself down
Yeah, and then they introduce the music we'll get there. Yeah, yeah, when it wasn't possible for us to do a single more push up
The again I'm fast forwarding, but when it wasn't possible for us to do a single more push up
We were made to assume stress positions in push-ups stance knees off the ground with our asses in the air
Anyone who faltered and dropped was kicked until he managed to regain its his stance
Yes, so there's nothing mean about it
They're just trying to figure out whether or not you want to be there and if you don't well, you know
Well that being said you you got to do your your four months of basic
You can decide to leave at the end of basic, but they're they're definitely putting up the pressure on early
And if people deserve they they know but they don't you've done them a favor really
Yeah, yeah, made it easy for them exactly the punishment's varied and largely came down to the corpals imagination
Which I can only imagine what that what that ends up looking like
So then he what when did you go to the farm when does that happen? Once we were we had 50
The next group showed up so I think it was there for a couple weeks before we were a
Complete section and then off you go so then you go to a place called the farm and here
You say the next four weeks would be our first real challenge in basic training
It's supposed to weed out anyone deemed unfit for the Legion
We would be presented with our white capies only when we completed the farm and that was super foreign to me coming from the Canadian system
I'll be a short
You know they'd say we're you guys we go into the farm for a month. I was like you know what and
Yeah, it was it was definitely an eye opener, but effective well what what part was an
Was strange to you well just the term farm like I was what you know where you go farming
Okay, and then we show up and it actually looks like a French farming building and
Landscape around it, but it's an effective tool you're there for a month and you just get beasted on and they
Show you the way of of the Legion Aaron if you can hack it good for you if not
If you go how often are people quitting?
We had a handful probably ever week one or two would dessert
Yeah, and it was kind of as I mentioned kind of an understood thing if it's not for you
Just or if you go if the John Darm's pick you up they would you know be sent back to the Legion they do their time in the jail and then they don't release them
It's not like there's so any criminal I asked back to it
Yeah, it's just part of the system. You eat out the week and they started to build that a
teamwork here based on this kind of thing back to the book any error collective or individual resulted in shared punishment
We were only as good as our weakest members so those who were stronger had best help the last capable
But those of us who were stronger and more capable soon lost patients when the guys making our days a lot harder
It wasn't long before a clear hierarchy of ability became evident within our group
Sayin
The really a trying to figure out who's supposed to be there the tough routine brought the expected result
During our first week another Britain on Australian and New Zealander from the latest group to join. We're missing at morning a pel
Once again the realization that they had deserted struck me as odd the corpus reactions were minimal
Ultimately no one wants a deserter in the ranks and
Then you could get to this we were broken down into by-nomes. Did my say that right beat them be norms yeah
or groups of two
This is a tradition that they've come back to the Roman legions whereby two soldiers were designated to guard each other's backs and battles and in seal training
We have swim buddies which is the same thing like in the Marine Corps and the Army I think they call them battle buddies, but yep
So that's another word for you need a you need a you need a swim buddy you need a partner. Yep at all the time
You had another partner at all time and that was hunger hunger was a constant companion
The combination of physical fitness long hours in the classroom and seemingly ended anglic endless pushups took its toll on everyone
How much did you guys eat enough?
We were definitely weren't eating enough to compensate for the calories you're burning
But that was also part of it trying to turn it to the right shape and reference the the deserters
I think I mentioned that it seemed like it was more that the brits the Kiwis the Aussies the Western area
You know the
Non-eastern blockers ever were deserting and I think that's because that's something
To have you have the evidies are at home or is Eastern blockers where they're gonna go you know they got no choice
So it's a it's an effective system, but it's not perfect because you know potentially losing good soldiers
But they're just not ready to put up with certain bullshit
Early on and now we get to I think what well
Marching songs marching songs are an important legion tradition and throughout its history
Regiments have marched into battle singing most songs tell the stories of former campaigns and battles
Although I respected the legit legion's history
I dislike singing as it was completely alien to my concept of what soldiering should be
My previous exposure to army life had been an entirely different experience
So you guys are singing he songs and here's an example
I won't do the French version. I'll read the English being the translation against the vets against the enemy
Wherever duty calls soldiers of France soldiers of the country
We march toward the front Legionnaires the battle that begins places enthusiasm encourage in our souls
It may rain grenades and gravel our victory will be sweeter
But if death strikes us down if our bloody fingers stiffened on the ground one last raid fair well and tomorrow
We will wish to train despite the bullets and the shells under fire and bombs
We will advance toward the same goal ignoring the call of the grave
Roger, no, I I should talk it, but I respect it and it has its place and its purpose and it's effective
And that's you know, that's the history of the Legion. So it's it's what they what they do and what they use
They I mean this there's what do they call that there's some there's some thing
Where you say the same thing over and over again?
Certainly yeah, and you start to believe it. I believe it's just called straight up brainwashing
But yeah, that's that's what they're doing right you're singing these song the cadence is that we used to sing
We sang some cadences that were completely
Not okay
meaning they were just over the top with
Just wrong and they don't do many more. It's been interesting when I went back and I talked to guys like oh
You guys still sing that cadence kind of thinking to myself. They probably don't and they don't there's cadences that they
Banished because they were so bad
But they're still cadences that you sang and like things like this. Hey, this is what we do but it builds cohesion
Right, there's the teamwork it's learning figuring it out together
You know
Pulling along the weakest link
But when you do finally get it you start marching together collectively as a group there is that pride like yeah
We nailed us and we got it and it's effective and as I mentioned we we march into the into the regiments for
weeks later as a cohesive group in step
Seeing them in the right tune and it's impressive that they can do that in a short amount of time with you know
All these different nationalists and people don't speak French they have different alphabet like it's it's an effective system
Yeah, yeah, no the the the learning French part has got a huge yeah, I'm supposed to be the Russians
I mean they different alphabet we had Koreans. I mean I had it easy and I and I say that having that base made it
Hell of a lot easier for me. I have to worry
But I could just focus on the the soldiering and the not getting beasted on how good does someone's French get in four weeks or I guess now
It's been a week
Weeks that they've been here depends on the individual obviously there's some that pick it up quicker than others
If you're cleaning toilets all the time and work in the kitchen you might want to put a little more effort into it
There's certain nationalities like the Romanian so they have that lot in base that pick it up quite well
And yeah, it's down to each individual to put in the time and effort
What about just fast forward real quick three years down the line does everyone food in French?
Yeah, quicker than that. Well, that time you're done basic you have in that part of their their
The system within those four months you have a basic level of French before you can go to the the next step to your regiments
And that'd be said about third of the the men in the ranks are also French
So what they'll do is imagine the book is they'll put those who speak French
You'll be a be-in-one with a non-French speaker and you have to assist and if they're not pulled so what did they class you as?
Yeah, I was given that so I was given
A couple of angle phones a Brit to help out and if they're not pulling their weight I'm cleaning toilets and working to get you with them
So the owners is there to to get them along even with the Brit you guys have a common language because you can transfer to English
Yeah, right, but you could be with a Korean that speaks knowing English and then yeah tough
It's just
When you'd be in the classroom with Sergeant Schmidt that we mentioned there are others and they would just teach you to fork fork
Look at figure out fork if you don't you know the old open hand would come and you'd learn fork
Fuck
We're good to know you think it's a wrong choice
Yeah, you say it seemed like we spent more time singing than soldering each song as songs to the tune match at the slow-paced of the Legion's March and
In some cases secondary singers are assigned specific tenor courses filling in the background
Most of the recruits agreed that Legion training was far from what we had expected the emphasis on singing the constant hunger
That nodded our guts didn't help we were blissfully ignorant of the fact that this was all part of the training
Things improved somewhat when we started concentrating on elementary combat skills
We also started marching for several hours a night
Compute as a complete section with our FA. How do you what do you say there?
Famous so you say for moss from us from us from which is your weapon webbing and backpacks
With each passing march the duration extended until we spent most of a night marching passing through local villages
Force and fields I enjoyed the marches and didn't find them too difficult
But some of the guys developed large blisters from the friction of our stiff stiff leather boots
Nobody showed them much sympathy suffer in silence. That was the attitude cumulative
Fatigue meant we were usually in a state of semi sleep
Simply following the man in front of us. So you guys are humpin. Yeah
How many how many clicks were you doing tonight? I can't you know, I don't to be honest
I don't remember the exact number
enough to it would progressively increase
You know once we get our legs and pineus and we'll be marching on light get back early and
The next NCOB they're saying glad you had a good night sleep. Let's get to it. Yeah, yeah
All this trick in the gun you know we all fall for what in the Marine Corps
Like the drone structures they change shirts
So you never see them sweating so it doesn't matter what they're doing they'll come in like a chicken totally
I'm sure to go
smart
Continue on our toes again skipping through a bunch of stuff here our time at the Foreigners finished in the final three days
We involved the forced march meaning a march of longer duration than we had been used to it was called
Lamaosh Kepi because it was after this that you earned the right to wear the coveted white Kepi and be promoted to the rank of Legion air
Do zoom here. What's that yeah, yeah, I said that right. How do you send them to zoom? DGM class second class Legion error
Then you guys are sort of in a graduation and
Someone steps forward and reads the first line of a Legionnaires coat of honor
Then and then the rest of you who which is where's that Benny the Scott?
Oh, he's the guy that was that mean he used the honor gratter something. Yeah, yeah
Eventually quit but yeah
So you guys step forward and here's the Legionnaires code
Legionnaire you are a volunteer serving France with honor and loyalty every Legionnaires your brother and arms
Irrespective of his nationality race or religion you will show him the same solidarity as that which bonds a family
Respectful of traditions loyal to your commanders discipline and camaraderie are your force
Courage and loyalty your virtues proud of your status as a Legionnaire you express this through your uniform
Always smart your behavior dignified but modest and your quarters always clean as
An elite soldier you train rigorously you maintain your weapon as your most precious possession and you're always mindful of your physical condition
The mission is sacred you will execute to the end at all costs
In combat you act without emotion or hatred you respect the defeated enemy and you never abandon your dead
Your wounded or your weapons
After completing the code we are ordered to place our kepteys on our heads and the order was given to present arms to the commanding officer
We were now Legionnaires
Pretty awesome code there yeah, how's it's place in history?
It's
It's interesting they got that last line in their combat you act without emotion or hatred you respect the defeated enemy and you never abandon your dead
You're wondering it's interesting the respecting the defeated enemy. I wonder when that was added. Do you know I don't definitely
You're representing France the flag so your actions
They speak for themselves. I don't know exactly historically when that was added
Yeah, um
So now it's time to check in
Right check in with third company third section with
With your regiment
So basic continues. We basically have three months left. Oh really. Yeah, so it's yeah
You finish the farm and then you go back to Custell for three months and then you start your training as a Legionnaire as an
Infantryman and they basically set you up so depending on what regiment you go to you have the base skills needed for them to
To work with you. So when you go to third company third section. Are you still in basic training? Yeah
So you still not you still not don't yet
What's the total training time that it's gonna take?
Okay, I think that's yeah, that's about the same time as
Maybe the Marine Corps boot camp Marine Corps boot camps 13 weeks
Um
So that and that just completes more of your kind of basic military training. Yeah, you get more into the infantry type of stuff
Okay, so you are doing combat skills and
The farm was just a beast to show you what would a Legionnaire should deal with and take
There's not a lot of it's you know mentioned if there's the basics, but it's not it's just more about the discipline right learning the
Tools of the trade and then when you get back to the the regiment for the last three months
Then it's more focused on the soldier actually becoming the learning the tactical skills
Yeah, and then
You're assigned to the sports monitor course and
The military driver course and
And then you're gonna get sent to a second rep so we'll explain that to me. So I finished a finished first
And hats off to I mentioned Benny he was an ex
British soldier served in
Over in Ireland a good guy and he was my you know go to during training
You know he had his
History and stories and he had a bad knee so he decided at the end of your basic training
You can decide to
Call a quits and he did and we had a you know I think about 17 that did I don't remember the exact figure I mentioned
But there was a chunk that decided it wasn't for them
I finished first and generally how it works is
Depending on where you finish you can pick and decide where you want to go the different regiments in the Legion
There's one airborne regiment the rep and that was my my choice my only choice
However because I'd finished first and I had the French the language ability
They wanted me to stay on his a foot foot now it meant it's in the book. We have these acting corpus that aren't corpus
But they've been given that
Greater
ability based on their
Language or language skills and they could be
Fox I'd all to say that some of them took advantage of their their authority and
Delta out punishment which was unfair because they haven't done shit
So they had a bad name for themselves
And we all picked up on that and we had one in particular that I had no time for and never ran into again
Which is probably good thing but they wanted me to stay as a foot foot and I think my end head in CO
Could tell
Based on my reaction that wasn't I didn't want that and come all this way to be a foot foot
I wanted to go the rep so they came up with a solution was I if I went into my sports monitor to course
I could go to the rep what's the sports monitor course? It's basically in the regimen you'll have your sports bureau and
And they dictate you know just the athleticism of all the Legioners they do all the planning for sports events
Yeah, basically just run the sports bureau
So that would be a course that gave you that qualification to be a part of the regimen sports bureau
Got it so you're learning more about the physical training aspects so when you get to a regimen
You can go hey, yeah, Joe you got this you know set up our physical training make sure we're good to go
So I was able you know I had the the athleticism and I was able to you know do well enough that they I guess saw the
That part of me as a soldier and that was the option I was given and I took it and then
We graduated number one what's that babe that's based on just like every I think looks back that you're great
I'm general
Every day I just a cross the board at the end they have an evaluation what were you good at
I could run it started to come on you know I was I was heavier when I joined you know being Canadian
I could have had a bit of muscle on me and they they told me down pretty good
So I picked up the running I did well and the big staple
Physical side for the Legion is the eight kilometer run with Rucksack and weapon
You actually do a 1500 meter sprints. There's a thing of five minute break and then you do eight kilometers
There's that there's the rope then there's the obstacle course and
You know, I was able to do well in those so with that on the range I was consistent
Obviously I had the the language my kit was in gear
You know I wasn't a problem was there anything that you were not good at anything you struggled to
I could
But yeah, that was not my fortie but as far as the actual soldiering stuff
There's nothing that really gave you a problem
No, not obviously I mean I there's room for improvement in everything
But overall no I wasn't I was enjoying it. You know I was I wanted a soldier and that's what we were doing
I could see the the progression and where I wanted to go was was coming
I was getting to that spot so I think I had the right attitude
I would see like anything attitude is is a huge factor
I think I just put my head down and soldiered on and that was
looked up on
Yeah, the people always surprised when you know for for seal training anyways
You know I would say like if you're a okay high school athlete you'll be fine
Like you don't need to be some superhuman because you just need to be able to do the stuff and then obviously
If you got an aptitude towards running you're gonna be better that or opt to towards the obstacle course
You're gonna be better at that but you don't need to be some super stud to make it through exactly and consistent
It's always better than excellent one thing and then we can others like you got that you can build on those but if you're I think
Most NCOs itself appreciate that. Yeah, you're always you're always there in that top group kind of pull on your weight
Yeah, no for sure. I think it better to be well rounded than a special special
special T yet swimming or a special T yet running because
If you're not good at one of those things or if you're bad at one of those things
You're not gonna make it because I mean it's much better to be average and I was average
How this is strong average
Hand-to-hand combat instructors demonstrations were full on despite his name
Sergeant Chief LaGrosse the big was a small wide refrenchment
He was aggressive during his demonstrations. He kicked a corporal in the groin while we all watched it all
The sergeant chef chief then asked for the next volunteer all our hands shot up immediately
We knew Phil for well that if we didn't volunteer we would be chosen the next guy was thrown to the ground
Hard or something just as fun to watch so you guys were getting some actual hand-to-hand training
Yeah, the French have that they call it court a court which is
Somewhat based off of the these are really crev. Marga, but it's just your basic hand-to-hand and things get tight close
Whatever you have that ability to look after yourself, but the other was a bit
Yeah, and they'd be an invaluable you should the end and the part of this sports course
You had to have a minimum level so you could teach it. Did you know did you remember enough judo to like make it help?
Some of the basics, but no not really. I mean my white belt in judo wasn't really didn't impress you
All the all the sergeant chief the big he didn't he didn't care about your judo
No, not at all
This is another situation you're in an older man in his family approaches from the side of the chat
Tell we introduced ourselves and Mac explained to me that the man was with the French referred to as a peed noir
Was that mean black foot yeah, exactly a French national born in Algeria North Africa
This was history I knew little about aside from reading Legionnaire, but it was important in understanding the Legion and
The second rep in particular
Mac asked if we could go
If we could camp on the chateau's grounds that night and the gentleman agreed that evening
We sat around the campfire with the gentleman and his family drinking wine and listening to his stories like
One in which he vividly described a battle where his regiment was saved by the Legion which had apparently marched into battle singing
He was emotional telling it he had been a French officer in the Algerian war
1954 to 1962 what I didn't fully understand at the time was that a 1961
dissident French regiments including the legions one rep had aligned with anti-gallelists and seized power and
Algiers during a coup d'tat in part the one rep's objective was to jump into and seize Paris to remove
President Charles de Gaulle's from power the push a German term for a coup d'tat
But used by the Legion failed before it began and the one rep was later disbanded correct
That's a crazy step it is and prior to that the the Legion had its own
Air Force or its own airplanes after that they were
That control was taken away now Matt you mentioned macmonera so after my sports monitor course
I go to back to O'Buyng which is the headquarters for the the Legion and I'm there for the summer as lifeguard
I called that operation lifeguard
But the promise was once I did the summer I could go to the rep macmonera was a Canadian soldier that left
And he was actually the guy that did my B2 interview and
And I saw him at the pool with his wife and child and I introduced myself and he kind of took me under his wing
And during our time off we go on hikes and that's one of the hikes so we go to the shadow and the gentleman living there was an old
French officer that had been in jail for numerous years as a result of the pooch and what happened is that P. Noah's were French citizens
French blood that were born and raised in Algeria part of the French military, but that was their home
And after their time in prison or France they couldn't go back to Algeria because the civil wars are over and they wouldn't necessarily welcome
They didn't have any family or or placed to be in France
So what a lot of them did was take over these shadows that were owned by the Algerian government and just decided
Okay, these are our now our homes and they would live there with their families and they were you know, they didn't have the money so they're all
Broken down old shadows, but no one wanted to take responsibility so this was an old poochist and yeah
He told us some of his stories and this for me in widespread mention the book because it's a history lesson on on the lesion and certainly the rep now
What was the one thing that I've and that I've
The way I always kind of perceived that that coup d'tat of the push was that
France had decided you know what we're not gonna fight for Algeria anymore. We're gonna get it back and the legionnaires who had fought and died and
lost their friends to to keep Algerians said you know what no we're hanging on to this exactly and by the way
Oh, you don't want to do it fine. We're gonna literally fight a France. We're gonna do a parachute drop in the France. We're gonna take Paris
Yep
I'm gonna get rid of Charles to go all the president exactly 100% and there's some history from into China that
played its part two because a lot of
Families were left behind local national families and they paid the price and Algeria with this and a lot of them were married to Algerian women had families
They wouldn't have the ability to bring them back to so yeah, there was a lot of history there and
They definitely didn't agree with the Gauls decision. So and it wasn't just the rep. There was several other regiments and
Yeah, the Gauls figured it out beforehand and got to the right people and said stand down and they did and
Yeah, a lot of a lot of people went to a jail and there are some stories of worse, but again
There's no yeah, it's hard to even fathom that
It's hard to fathom that I mean it's hard to fathom that like in America right thinking that the hundred and first airborne division
Was gonna say okay, you know what we're gonna drop
We're gonna do a parachute drop in deadwashing in DC when it take the White House and we're gonna get rid of the president
I mean, that's that's what that's what there is basically exactly what this is doing what we're saying here putch yeah, it's it's crazy to think that yeah
And this was only when 1960 something yeah, this isn't like the revolutionary war
Yeah, that's a crazy story. I'm gonna have to dive into that story on the podcast
And that's Simon Maurice period. That's yeah, that's ongoing yeah
All right
How are the guys from the how would they viewed
In other words when you when you would meet these guys that were like part of the push or when you would talk about these guys
Would people say all they were wrong or would people say we understand? I think they understand certainly now
With time people kind of see the reasoning and and the history and and the reason for why things occurred
And I would also say probably at the time a lot of information wasn't being shared
So they probably just thought they wanted to replace the goal. They didn't necessarily know the history of the reasoning
But I think as soldiers we all certainly I I respect that
The reason behind or what they're doing isn't really a factors more just that they were they were there
They experienced it and I don't judge but for me it was you know
I didn't know a lot about the religious history certainly Francis history so that was all something new to me and as I learned
I kind of it helped me understand what I was part of and what I was joining which is important
But but but the but as you would hear these stories it was sort of was it was it was there a level of respect when you would talk about the
100% rap yeah, oh
And those were the pictures that I'd seen and then it's like a beauty's and stuff was them jumping into China
Jim M. Fu and then Algeria during the war and that is what became the maps turned into
What the rap is today oh 100% I thought it was cool is
And they disbanded completely one rap
They gone forever yeah like that history is dead. They were yeah
They said no, it's not done. I mean, it's actually kind of crazy that they kept the anything
I mean he can't him can you imagine the gall he must have said
That's I mean he must have I guess they must have done a good job of isolating saying no that was these guys over here
You can keep the rest of that's work cool
Definitely
Yeah, because if I was him I'd be thinking way to second these guys are a unified and they were kidded up waiting at the airport
The planes didn't show up that's he got to the Air Force General and said stand down. I know what's yeah
There were there were close. Who'd have been exciting?
But yeah, yeah, it's industry in part of history for sure. No, and I talked about a lot
To be honest with you. Yeah, it's a lot of stuff there that I learned being there and being surrounded by and asking questions
But yeah, and I'm sure I'll go into at some point in Legion air, but that warred Algeria was vicious
Yep, and it was a
True like counter-insurgency going on and there was a lot of you know, there was there was
The insertion tactics of you know booby traps and I
E.Ds and things like that it was brutal. Yeah, it was brutal great movie about it too
That's good. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, it's interesting. I worked in Algeria for years after the military and
Again, you know, just seeing some of the spots he talked about when I ever camp was right next to his camp in Philivillin
Yeah, for me history is is something I'm always fascinated with so it's interesting to see in here and then be in spots and
Put them all together a little battle field walk. Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry
All right back to the book here my summer pass quickly enough even though and I was given three weeks and told that I could return
On my return I would be departing for the parachute regiment
Home wasn't quite what I expected because you went you ended up going home seeing family was great
Ultimately things changed with time and people move on Janelle
Which was the the female you were involved with had a new boyfriend? Yeah, as they do and my friends were either working or going to school
Not a lot of common interest for experiences trying to explain how it's meant the last year was difficult if not pointless really
People just didn't get it my time at home only reinforced my original goal to jump from a military airplane
Yeah, so it was like a reset you miss home as you know me that at that point had been well over a year
But you go home and it's the same shit. There's a reason why you left
I hadn't achieved obviously what I'd gone there to do so that check wasn't in the box
But it kind of gave me that reset new vigor and off I went yeah, and you know
Yeah, it should happen best thing ever. Yeah, see you later
Now have fun with it a Fred over there exactly
You saw the GCP for the first time
So yeah, I joined the the airborne regiment do you imagine my co-shape power cheese which are not even trying based on the island of Corsca and
Calvary which is a Mediterranean island off the coast of texture closer to Italy, but it's part of France
So I joined the rep. I do my my jump course to about three weeks and I joined the first company
Which specializes in night
ops urban combat and
You know every week you're typically every week here. You're jumping and we're at the
The airport getting kidded up this truck pulls up and all these guys jump out and it's a mix of corpile sergeants
senior NCOs and a lieutenant in a captain and they're the
Covalency of the pathfinders and the British or Canadian system in the French system. They're considered
Pathfinders for the regiment
But in the French military there's nine airborne regiments in total one of them is the legions rep
So they're part of the battalion each
Regiment has a GCP team and they create the GCP group
So they can work together and support the French special operations command so they can either be working for the regiment as Pathfinders or
Separately as the group supporting
French special operations man so I didn't obviously know this at the time I see them jump out
They seem more relaxed like the Legion way it's certainly the rep and a common company. It's very
You know
These guys jump out slack, you know kind of they got their jumpsuits on they grabbed the rigs and they're just kind of hanging out and
It seemed to me that the
NCOs y'all officers in the junior ranks were all kind of mingling which doesn't happen
Typically or ever in a combat company and so I asked our corpile, you know who is who is that and he said the other was the GCP
So that was the first time I saw something like something
I didn't know about but I was like damn that that looks like I need to get some if I can
Yeah, that's what happens
So you get done with that jump school I presented myself to
Now you're back. I think this is where you're checking into your duties your section
I present myself to the first section duty NCO in the section hallway and the court and the duty corporal corporal rake
Who is formerly in the British Parisian Regiment correct yep?
So I've just joined the first company done basic training
We're all going to the first company. This is me showing up mr. rookie with beer case in hand
He provided me with some quick advice total line war card
This simple insight into section life was pretty much the norm for all Legionnaires
There was no room for discussion
Yeah, so we have to show up with a case of coronavirus
Which they sell at the fact that the Legion is stake owner in
Coroner but that's you gotta show up with your case of beer and hand it over if you don't you'll just be going straight back to get your beer
So we all know this way. Yeah, that's and rake yeah, rake was good shit
Yeah, yeah, work hard. Yeah pretty straightforward really good advice shut up and just do your tool
That's really good advice for all of life
Life in the company didn't differ much from basic training
A pelvis done at section in company levels in the company Parade squares and section hallways in the mornings the company would parade at
0 720 hours section duty corpus would present to duty section sergeant who would present the section head NCOs who in turn
Represent the section commanding officer usually lieutenant
So you guys are still rigid. Oh
Yeah, it's
Yeah, I mean because checking into a seal team like those days are like even I was a new guy checking into a
Skelton we're not report anything like that. Yes. Well at this point. I mean it's it's
Infantry it's a year typical army regiment. It's just regiment yeah controlled and then
Yeah, making sure that their legion hairs don't do dumb things
That's I'm the living in barracks 100% yeah, there's the regiment there open bay barracks
Meaning do you have your own room or like for to a rumour saw there was or it was six
No, it wasn't yeah wasn't time but yeah, I could you bring females back on base? No
Good one no no no
So we wish you could hotel rooms on the weekends when you get well we get you get into if you want to go out
You have to go through a
Procedure where you apply for peri me shown so every day in the morning if you want to go at the end of the day if you're allowed
You fill out a form and it's a little square piece of paper you got to use a ruler to write it straight
If not though this rip it up in front of you you hand that to your corpel
And that goes to your sergeant then it goes to the lieutenant if you approve he signs it it goes to the captain
He signs it and it comes back and then at the end of the day when the workday is over
They give you your tea to peri me shown you have to get you're gonna form on because as a legion error for the first five years
You can't wear a civis so you're in uniform
So you get on a uniform you go down to the
The NCO on duty in your company and he'll check your tea to peri me show he'll check your uniform to make sure that it's square to wait
I don't want to go out all right. Yeah, I'm done you know, and then if he says it's good
Then you go to the front gate and the duty in CO and sergeant there do the same thing
They look at you and then when you're in town
There's the military police that are patrolling and
If they they catch you out of sorts or you know, it's jail
So yeah, it's seriously controlled now as we said you know, it's things have lightened up a bit now
But during the time it's yeah
You didn't want to go for that so we can sure but my first deployment in the seal teams
I deployed and what we used to call a spec ops
Bulltune which sounds a lot cooler than it actually was just meant that we were deployed we deployed the Guam
And so when we get there, I mean I'm
Twenty or twenty one years old and
It was pretty much like hey you do your job and then do whatever you want
Which in Guam meant we were gonna go me were young male human beings
We were gonna go and get after it and and if you if you had to meet at a to clock the next morning
You could show back up you could leave at as soon as the work was done
You could go do whatever you wanted as long as it was borderline legal
And then when you got done you could if you were meeting at eight o'clock in the morning you come roll back in at seven fifty nine
And no one cared what you did it was total
Mayhem it was total mayhem and then was it was interesting my next deployment I went on board a ship
With a seal puttune and
If you were an e4 below which I was
You had to be back on the ship by
It was either nine or ten o'clock at night. So when he took your right in your yeah, that isn't it
It was but but it was it was like completely crazy to me that
a year prior I had been literally doing whatever I could imagine doing for and by the way
Wasn't like you know we'd have entire weekends or we'd get a three day or a four day weekend and just go
Do I mean just get crazy just go and just do whatever you want and then here I was a
Year later now I'm like 22 or 23 years old and they're saying
Well, this is with my work up and deployment. That's why it's fast forwarding 18 months two years
But it now all of a sudden. Hey, you know you gotta be back by by 10 o'clock in night
I mean I was in Thailand
On rogue solo missions in the middle of nowhere
You know and then fast forward. I'm on a ship and they're like hey, you're gonna be back by 10 o'clock and it was great
It was seem crazy to me and that's why you know earlier you and I were talking about
Like when you join the military and how much how much how it is for you mentally and just to have
Experience the kind of freedom that I experienced early on and then get that tightened back up was a lot harder
That's what I think when you're 18 years old like I was when I joined the military
I wasn't fully I didn't fully understand freedom anyways. Yeah, so it was like okay cool
You want me to do whatever you want me to fill out 19 forms before I can go have a beer with a female out in town
Cool bring me the forms. I'll do it. Yeah, no, it's it's and I you know
That's why I tried to get into that when I mentioned because as we say you know where young men you join
There's certain things that you don't necessarily think about when you go there like oh, you know
I want to join Legion be a soldier, but you're young men you got other objectives to at the end of the day
And it's not the greatest environment for other objectives
Which is a result of probably the high turnover?
You know when you do me to girl you're like come back going back to that and that's why they they lost a lot of guys
That's as I said that's changed, but I try to get that into the book to show that
There's other aspects of the mental game that are there. It's you know
Sure pushups are getting beasted on and whatever, but there's also
There's other parts to a human being and it's tough sometimes to to deal or get get to that
You know, so that's the the idea behind some of the now as you get stuff
That's your first five years you can't go out without your uniform on garrison
No, now if you're on leave and you get a three week leap period you can go off theoretically. You can't leave France
How much do you get a year typically about three weeks
Yeah
It's the life
Yeah, now if you go on operation you'll get the dish. I think you're guaranteed three weeks
But if you go over overseas on tour when you come back you'll get another three so it depends if if you're busy
You get you know more, but yeah, it's not that's not their objective is to give you leave it still
to use your services
Oh
Then
That's a challenge of writing telling the stories. I got it you got to cover all the things that people don't think about so it's
You know, it's figuring out yeah
Well, what's interesting is I always tell people hey, you know
Look the military is not like boot camp
Meaning hey when you get done with boot camp which yeah boot camp is you're gonna be all regimenting all that
But I would say you know military's not really like boot camp
Well, that's also coming from my perspective as a seal which really is not very much like boot camp at all when you get to a seal team
But and then you get to you know the regular navy or the regular army or the the Marine Corps
There's more aspects to it that are more similar to boot camp like you got to fill out a chip to go to
To go on liberty or something like that, but this is leaning towards boot camp
I mean this is like you know this is definitely then like a range of regiment range of regiment
They're they're freaking hard core too and they you know you're still dropping down doing pushups for people when you're
At range of Italian whereas in the suit teams like people don't drop you down to do pushups
There's no
Punishment like that. I mean you can get in trouble, but your trouble is just gonna be no like a normal
Uh
Like you get written up or something like that if you do something really agree just but you got to do something pretty
You're just to get written up. I don't think I ever got written up
Then that's the environment here, right? Is I when I get to the GCP which is considered as it's a team thing
And the onus is on you to you got to you got to show up if you don't show up
Only you get you get kicked out of the team and that's not quite as yeah, that's part of it
too is is even it's this another thing that comes to a big surprise for people is during seal training
There's a majority of the weekends you have the weekends off yeah, like you can once again if you want to do
You could go like when I went through guys some guys will go down to Mexico go down to Tijuana and party the whole weekend long
And come now I wouldn't do that a because I was like younger and be because I was paranoid about not making it through
So I would sit there and sharpen my knife all weekend long and polish my boots and and
Press my uniforms because I was super paranoid about not making it
But some guys they just they would be gone the whole weekend and there's here's the deal some guys would get in trouble
And then they wouldn't make it to the seal too
So there was a test of your maturity and of your own personal discipline
Whether you could make that Monday morning 0 4 30
Times run on the beach. Hey if you're late. That's it you fail you're out or you spend the weekend doing something stupid
You can't perform you're out or you suck it up and you stay there and you polish your boots and you get ready for Monday
Which is what you really should be doing though
But yeah that that the the the individual freedom that you get in seal training is a test
It's a test to see if you can handle it or not because once you get to a seal team and you're in a seal
Ptune you you got all kinds of freedom it's kind of crazy when when you think about it
You've got all kinds of freedom you're in a foreign country. You've got all you've got money
You've got you know access to gear and if you do you if you wanted to be stupid
You could get really stupid really quick and you could cause some real problems
Yeah testosterone has its effects 100% yeah
Yeah, but these guys are keeping you all tight
Yeah, yeah
And that's and that's the system you know as you mentioned obviously your the seal system is effective and that's the way it is it we do
So the Legion system has that history where they probably initially had the type of people where you had to be
Right them all the time
And that's it's where it is and that's you know as I mentioned they're kind of lighting up on
And now the things have changed and they're busy. Yeah, they don't have to be quite as stringent on the guys because of the turnover
But yeah, it's it's definitely controlled and that's something you got to keep in mind if you're gonna go there like it's not
Yeah, yeah, there's that person you get that idea of iron discipline
And you when you go back in history and I've talked about this before well one of the reasons that you needed
Iron discipline back in the days you're literally dealing with conscripts that don't have what want to be there at all
Yeah, like you've taken them there basically slaves are gonna fight for you
So you have to impose some kind of discipline now you can also find many examples where past leaders
That were even leading conscripts but they led that they cared about their men
It was more positive it was a better outcome
But unless you're that care is magic leader that can pull that off well you're left with one choice and it's like okay
I'm gonna these guys are good either doing I tell them and I'm gonna beat them
I'm gonna lead with fear. Yeah, it's always better to leave with caring for your guys
But when people don't have that capability what do they do they they
Default to I'm just gonna lead by fear or if it's things you if you give them that
Latitude or options are a rule I make they come back and yeah, yeah
Like yeah, then you drop the hammer again. It don't allow to do anything and I think in the system too
You see the NCOs as you rise in rank your freedoms increase so then the onus is on you to get there
And obviously that's what the delisence like you for just you know these NCOs and leaders
So they're hard either in the beginning but there's a reason for that if you want to get to the top
Well, then put it in time and have for tell us show us that you're capable and you'll get those those freedoms
Yeah, and what about like they like you mentioned earlier that the less of the Eastern block
Guys would deserve because they're just used to a harsher lifestyle
It seems like if I was an Eastern block guy and now I'm getting I think you say the pay is like
1200 bucks and a lot of something like that. Yeah good money. Yeah. I'm sitting here
Oh, you want me to fill out a thing cool off a lot of thing all day long. I don't care. Yeah, and that a big part of the
The size of the wrapper a lot of leisure regiments during that phase where Eastern block
Pollax and
Remanians checks slabs everything um they they took up a big part of the rank and
Yeah exactly as you say
It was a good a good option for them considering the the time man. I had a guy from a dairy farm in Minnesota
Well, this kid was this kid was basically slave labor growing up. Yeah. He told me literally
I will do whatever you want me to do as long as it doesn't have to do with cows and he was right
He hated cows but he would do he was this hard worker
Yeah, like he would have lived this lifestyle like it was a joke
He was ready 100% because he grew up just harsh
But if you grew up kind of pampered by a little bit rough 100% yeah, and that's the thing too if he's some walks
I think they grew up hard so there was some tough tough guys
I he got some Polish corporals and some of the comic companies. They're yeah, he don't fuck around excuse my friends
Yeah, and they have the freedom to ruin your day. You know
So yeah, you learn that pretty quick. Yeah, I had a Polish national awesome guy named drog always I did a
Patent him and he's just
So legit, but he's the same way like oh, what do you all do he was doing man? He won't have a big it happened
So yeah, there we go. All right
You end up doing some cool stuff though
Here's part of it and over the next three weeks
We learn how to both tell a mark and downhill ski with winter survival and alpine battle drills culminating in a final exercise with live fire
Our French instructors who were oversized white berets got to work introducing us to tell a
Marks king in the forest around surrounding the forts you're doing some winter warfare training good
Since I could already ski everything came easily enough to me, but one day I made the soldiers mistake a serious one while inside my shelter after patrol
I'd remove the magazine from my farmhouse
But I forgot to clear it and check prior to releasing its action and bang an accidental discharge
AD albeit with a blank round regardless
Lieutenant de
Mesme wasn't impressed I explained my mistake and he gave me the look of parental disappointment to my surprise nothing more
We're set about the incident
Yeah, you had that mighty AD I did less and learned and I always remember because Benny during basic training
It told me where one of his buddies had been shot in his lying his bed after patrol and
Ireland one of the teams came back and the guy had an Indian basically shot his friend through the head and it stuck with me
And I was you know a story that sunk and so when I had that in the effa man fuck
I just you know didn't do the same thing but that's exactly how it happens and at that point I had been pulling my weight
Having the
Being blessed and braises a you know an officers son whatever in Europe we were skiing in the Alps every winter so I could I was good skier
And so I was pulling my weight
Not causing
Demesme any problems so at that part I think he could tell that I was I was hard enough on myself
He didn't really say much what he can say
But yeah, it was it was definitely a good lesson for me 100% and every time after that when I you know took my
My agof I'm thing right away fucking clear like I just son of can that's that's how you learn right?
Yeah, yeah
Clear your weapon. Yep. Young
Thanks, yeah, I'm troopers out there
Don't have the AD it's really bad
Here's another situation where you you you tried to
You try to get to like a to leave to ski early and
Some NCO stomped you and then
We go here this guy so now you can't leave to go skiing early you've got to go with everyone else
He kind of
Crossed your plans and you say back in our barracks room
It was I was mid complaint about this rude disruption to my life when the NCO walk past within your shot
He marched into our barracks room and I paid for my belly aching with a head butt to the mouth
Not a word was said and we actually automatically brought up my guard to which the NCO responded by grabbing a metal stool from the corner
Strongly suggesting I don't bother taking it any further
check
So my fault I burrow myself I was trying to leave early. There was a bus scheduled for everyone to leave it
I think it was two or something and I had this great idea
You know that I was gonna go out at skip lunch and just go out and yeah, he put a kai Bosch to that and walk by the hall when I was
Bictionable to my other
Friends and yeah, came up and just basically
You know it's quite a bit bigger of a hats off to let me just butt to the mouth which shocked me
My initial reaction was just you know guard right like or and yeah
That's what he looked to the side and took that you know that was all
1940s French army stools you know it's a metal the way they just took that news
Like yeah, I'm good
I'm understood
And that was just like no factor. That's his day in the life. Yeah, who knows
Maybe he had it for me. I don't know. I don't recall but yeah, he checked my my attitude noted
All right back in Calvary, we squared away our kit and went straight back into the company routine and entry
Level company sniper course reschedule now is informed I was one of the two Legionnaires chosen from our section to attend
Joining nine other Legionnaires and corpus so you go to sniper school
You learn about the sniper weapon weapons
Then you also do
Everything else that we do which is sniping infiltrating building observation posts shooting from them
Technical training crawling into our OP is looking down range designated for archifier. This is standard. Yeah, it was technically the first phase of sniper qualification
It was tiered elite so it was more
Learning it was more of the shooting side of things the basics
But you would fall up on that and go to the actual sniper course after so it was a second part of the the qualification
So it's split into and yeah, that was the first part
Then
You continue on with section training and you say here section training continued for nearly ten months during which I knocked thirty six jumps
Soldier well all-jrow and physically and you're left alone by the corpus NCOs and officers this wasn't overly complicated
One morning during a run our head NCO said that in light of my general performance. I should consider volunteering for the GCP selection process
I wasn't aware that one could just volunteer
But I took his advice and passed before we tended dis mesme
Demesme correct him and asked for his approval to volunteer for GCP pre-selection which he doly approved
Cool you're getting that going
Corporal
Nogasi Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa Nagisa was our duty corporal that week
This is just another story turn transfer in fast forwarding. He was Japanese and his French was less than stellar
I approached him in the hallway and asked why I was supposed to be cleaning toilets
This is again a little fast forward jump. He took exception to me questioning his directive
And after a short back and forth he gave me a push saying that's an order
Nagisa was shorter than me, but stocky. I was pissed off of being told the clean toilets after ten ten months in the section
Fuck that I thought this push pissed me off too and
Unwritten rule exists within the lower ranks that in a confrontation that per that's perhaps more personal
You can suggest the higher rank higher rank remove his rank which I did
Nagisa removed his rank and pushed me again this time harder. I responded with a left to the side of his face
He dropped to the floor and then curled up into the fetal position holding his right cheek. I immediately felt bad and concerned
What had just happened was a huge mistake on my part
Roger that and then you fast forward you see him kind of all
Bandaged up and you say Nagisa wasn't a bad guy really my emotions had gotten the better of me and over something that wasn't a big deal at all
The captain was right who did I think I was this is the type of thing that had got me into trouble before the Legion and I needed to stop making these kind of stupid mistakes
So there you go. Yeah another good lesson learn
Man, I wish these lesson learns lesson learned lessons learned that you put in this book about just growing up
I wish there was some way that a young man could actually heed these warnings
Well, they could buy the book. Yeah, definitely you can buy the book and I hope they do
But you know like any my defensive I may you know I'm not a a psychopath. I'm not just punching people
There was some history there and
New Legionnaires joined the the section every week or second week
So we had ample new guys that would be cleaning to us that was I could tell that why did he make you do his person?
I was probably who knows? I don't recall but he obviously had an issue with me and that's what I noted and then so when I questioned it
Typically his his response was clearly you know pushments in order. I could tell that it's it's personal and then yeah
The rest is history, but yeah, I certainly regret it and
Yeah, and the captain it was actually the the company captain that
It's good to me like who the fuck do you think you are but saving grace was and and the corporal
Had the same story he agreed that we'd go through if you're ranks or he had room in his rank so I was you know typically not at fault
But still my attitude was in question. What do you think made you?
How do you think you were able to self reflect and actually see that you were wrong?
I mean because I hear this story over and over and over again from people that they can't they can't put the ego aside and just say you know what
That I was actually a jackass here. Yeah, he was at the end of the day. He was the corporal
He put on the orders that I cleaned 12 so he just cleaned 12s
Who am I to question his orders that's his role?
When I'm in a corporal I can you know choose and decide what I want to do but and that situation he was the
the higher ranking
Junior rank and yeah, I was wrong to question it and I was certainly wrong to
to go beyond that and
And the idea would be like if that's in an
Operation or things going on you don't question orders and that's you know the idea for ranks and orders is
You told do something you do it. There's no room for questioning that just gets people killed
So I was you know as a red flag for me as a character thing. I certainly as a
You know an up and coming soldier within the regiment is you don't it's just there's a wrong choice at the end of the day and I regretted it and I could tell right away and that was just old
Muscle
Memory you know what I mean
problem and that's I think that's that's one thing that
You know I mean I talk about all time on here is like
Well you actually do question orders and you do say hey boss why are we doing it this way and a good leader says oh well
What do you think why do you think that?
And there's a time in a place for that. No, but with this one
This is a classic example you don't have a relationship with this guy at all
He doesn't like you for whatever reason and
Instead of trying to build that relationship which would eventually because what if you're on an Operation and this guy
You're working for this guy and he makes a bad decision and says hey charge that machine gun nests and you're like okay
And now you all get killed because you charge machine gun nests
We want to have a relationship to a point where I can say hey
Hey, Nogison we need to we need to flank this guy or we need to get better coverfire something as
As opposed to hey Roger that. I'm gonna do what you told me to do
If you if you had no relationship with him even in a combat situation
He tells you do something and you say that's not a good call. He says shut up and go do it
Like now we're in a really bad standoff situation
You're disobeying a direct order in a combat situation. This is horrible. Yeah, whereas
If you do these little things like hey you want me to clean the cuz he's
What when it would he's really doing his testing you right whatever reason he didn't like you you are a good skier
And he struggled skiing or whatever and he's jealous and he's like oh, yeah, you probably
You probably skit you grew up skiing the French Alps and I grew up whatever
Not doing that and so he's jealous of that and so now he wants to get a gots opportunity to put it on you
And if you're character if you can show him that your characters hey Roger that boss got it. I'll clean those toilets
Hey, yep, don't worry about it. You keep you. I'm humble. I'm good. I know I can ski good, but I can also clean toilets good. Watch this
Then you start to build that up where you can eventually say
Now now he probably will look at you and his respect for you goes up. Yeah, cuz he says oh he grew up kind of a rich kid
skiing the Alps, but he doesn't mind cleaning toilets a not a bad guy and then you can eventually build that into someone
You can communicate with where does this doesn't turn out that way? No exactly and the sun they've been said about
peacetime army or time army is there's those different ways of
Figuring out who's who's what and where they should be in the hierarchy things and
Yeah, as I said we I don't know what and I could say was made of he didn't know what I was necessary made of
But in that situation, I I'd pull my weight for the duration that was there and
Yeah, they came to that and result wrong choice, but you learn from it and you move on and that was the last time I
Made that type of error and it's a classic. It's classic ego scenario, right? This is a class
You show scenario and and there's some there's a there right now. I guarantee there's a 20 year old listening to this
Go in what are you talking about man that guy's gonna make me clean toilets. I'm gonna bow up to him
And it's like that guy in five years that guy's gonna. Oh, yeah, I remember thinking that because you have to just mature through this
That's why I'm saying hey, I'm glad guys are gonna read this book, but you have to really read it and think about it
You have to really try and think about it think about what you're saying
Because man we are genetically programmed
You're a certain way and that certain way is not always the best way
That no exactly and so it's a name I mean the French foreign Legion there's obviously a reason
That I've gotten there and life maybe some of my choices weren't the wise as so I need to start learning and you know
Using this to my advantage not making the same mistakes all the time did you have like you said it was a captain that pulled you son
tattoo. Do you think you are did you have anyone that was like hey, man?
Hey man, what are you doing? Well a lot of potential why are you doing this? I had to trust uniform
Way-to-side. He called me and I go and present myself and then he basically you know ask me what occurred
At the end of that all the corpus came to me while I was cleaning toilets and said if you do that again
You know
You'll pay the price so it was made quite clear that you know question corpus in the in the section fair enough
And I cleaned those toilets so you know and results
And I didn't win I just yeah and I jeopardized my
Potentially my chance to do selection for the GCP so I was on all levels down on myself. Yeah, and you just said
You said you just said I didn't win which is which is like you're not gonna win that situation
And that takes a that takes a little bit of insight to understand hey you can stand up
You can bow up you can act like a tough guy you could even beat the shit out of him, right? You could have knocked him out
And you're still gonna lose yeah you're still gonna be cleaning toilets for longer with with a reduction in rank and
Proposably prison time which that's another thing we yet we you mentioned a couple of times
But you guys get sent to jail you do yeah
It doesn't you utilize you said it doesn't happen much. No, it doesn't take much. Oh, it doesn't take much. Yeah, I was lucky
I you know I told the line pretty good and I'm surprised I didn't go to jail there
But again the fact that he took his rank off was my saving grace
But yeah if you do anything that's deemed unacceptable
There's different amount of days and give you but they have a prison in the regiment and you're basically used as a
Ground's keep so you'll do an eight kilometer on every morning the shave your head you're in combat
With your typical HSE vest and you're basically running around cleaning up the camp and you do that for a week two
Eats depending on your hands and it doesn't take much right like missing like year yeah if you go out for the night with your teeth and you're late
We can seven days. Yeah, it's a jail. Yeah
You know the navy does that the navy has the navy can put you on bread and water
Like it niss like right now
There's some probably someone right now that's on bread and water for yeah, so doing something
And there's guys out see that we're always in jail. I remember things to myself like why do you come all this way jointly and then spend your time at jail
Like it just I mean like repeat a fact
Yeah, just always saying guys here run by you know as like cheese then
Those are the people that are not introspective. They're not learning unless exactly
Yeah, check all right
Next you go to pretty selection is this pre selection for GCP yeah correct yeah, so now it's pre selection
starts off you're doing weapons assembly you're working with all the different weapons
Humps 30 collect humps. Yeah, so that's the big one. You got to do a 30k run with rucksack gear helmet
and yeah
And this is still just GCP selection. Yeah, correct. So each combat company in the regiment there's five now when I was there there's four
But based on your performance within the section you can request
Selection if you're lieutenant approves and then your captain approves
Then you you can go and do selection and they'll they'll get a you know
30 I guys and then the GCP is looking for two new recruits or two new operator whatever they'll they'll take what they need based on if it's you know
Medics they need radio comms whatever they'll they'll pick and choose but you're there based on your performance
So it's not it's on an open selection. It's
You pulled you eight and you're you've requested selection. So and did you have a specialty at this point like you just mentioned comms medic no I had
Obviously it was first company so we were urban combat night and I had my you know the first part of the sniper course
That was it and you drive her call right. Yeah, so kind of milling is that is that not a big deal
No, it's just basic driving qualification I had my sports modern course, which doesn't you know help, but it shows that there's a bit of
Got
Yeah, but they take the the pre selection phase to
To put you through the the test and then figure out you know what what you're made of and then they'll
You will join the team on training and the CFE have the the character and the personality to gel with the other guys
So it's they're not really questioning your ability
There is the the physical aspect where they make you do the entry tests and all kind of stuff to see who's the better
But a lot of times the guys that were better at the push-ups the rope and all kind of stuff on the range
They would not quite pull their weight
So it was again being consistent across the mark and then when you start training with the teams
They pick up on you know whether or not you're able to pick up on the the lessons are teaching you and then if you gel with the other guys and that's kind of I think
They're
There's a lot of you mentioned that quite a few times in the book and I know I've highlighted somewhere, but just this idea of like hey
Just because you can run fast just because you can do the 30 click hump
With the required time or even the fastest of the bunch doesn't necessarily mean we want you on this team because
The most important thing is how do you interact with these other human beings that you're gonna put your lives in the hand of
Yeah, agreed
What the logic are you 30 kilometers together?
If you're there first one doesn't really help the last guy
You know, but it shows you're
You're willingness and you got something mental thing to 30 kids at the end you're yeah, you're slogging along
It says something but it's not everything just shows something but it's not everything
Yeah
Yeah, there's some guys that make it through basic seal training who are total studs but they're kind of our duds as seals because
They just couldn't work well with other people or they were to get in trouble and you know
I had had a guy that was great got great athlete and a good enough guy
But he just like getting in trouble. It's like the guy that you guys that you said you seem going to jail
Over and you're like man
Just don't do that stuff, man. You got all kinds of potential, but I don't know
I guess that's you mentioned testosterone earlier and I guess that can be hard to reign in some people. They're hard to change
So yeah, they just they do what they do
Yes, they do so you passed the GCP class
I do yeah, I get in
And they send me off to do my you have to minimum rank in the team is corporal
So they they actually pull me off of the the selection early and I thought I was getting
The good news is and yeah, you're not getting acts. Yeah, but they were acts. Yeah, there. Yeah
They're sending me off the corporate school. So I was starting so how long was the corporal's course? I think it was a month
For Maria four weeks and this is now where we started getting a little bit of leadership training
Yeah, more beasting how to really more beasting and how to be st others
There's a bit of leadership
There's you know giving orders drill that kind of stuff, but yeah, so you go back to
Castell which is the training wrench for four weeks and
And yeah, they're in the the trade is a corporal, but it's yeah, it's heavy on the
The beasting and the singing unfortunately which I get into but our training until
Was a lunatic
Qualified and good at what he did what's the name in the book?
It was muggy rai Ra he had he had done the command of course and
Down in South America
Man I forget the name, but it's renowned as a tough command of course
Um, man house ever heard is it what country is it?
I think it's in the Brazil yeah, yeah, anyway, you know, I think I think serge did that yeah, it's
There's a prisoner war phase where a lot of guys just lose it
Yeah, I think I came those you know feet and I'm your cage is in the water. You know with the rats swimming around
But still anyway, some of the guys it's renowned for its effectiveness, but he had done that
Yeah, I think it's serge did that why serge went my buddy serge who's a black-bonged jetser and he's
He he went through one of those courses it might have been the Rangers school though, but anyways he went through one of the
Renownly hard courses and he's a he's a man
I can't do it
He you know, he was probably in the prisoner of war sections like enjoying
Exactly, but I think my deriore was never had never less the left the course
He was there we were just part of his course
Yeah
He's effective he was you know he's he was a character in hence and that was just for your corporal score. Yeah, yeah good times
Now you're now you're joining the GCP finally and here we go. I presented myself to the duty office and I was told
I was going to the Central African Republic or car tomorrow to join the section
Bangui is that right? Bungi. Yeah, Bungi, Central Africa
The country's capital wasn't turmoil after a military rebellion so this is
Uncoming back from course course. They're already there. I'm not part of the team
Next thing would be my command of course, and then my halo course before you're an actual team member in the GCP
So this was surprised because they're asking me to go to join them
So it's unusual, but it's a good opportunity, but I'm not a team member yet
What made them they just needed? Yeah, they're short a person yeah correct
Yeah
So on November 20, my scene was your senior exemplary
On November 21st, 1996 I joined a dozen legionaires and NCOs from the second CIE who are on their way to
Chad now you get
Captained Raoul
Yep, Captain Raoul pulled me aside and told me that I wasn't a qualified
Section member yet. I was to watch and learn from the others. He quit then quickly brief me on the situation
The army of car elected president
Patas
was divided
And the rebels who opposed him had taken the
Patevo district on the southwestern edge of the city the rebels consisted of army officers as well as soldiers who were well-armed and capable
What I didn't know is that the conflict wasn't new to the rebels and
There were undesirables within the mix
Locals were being robbed and raped and there were rumors of summary executions
So this is it you're you just went from yeah from
Castell to Bungi and with and within a week and never really done any operation yet
No, you've had you deployed out of France you know at this point no, this is your first to point
Yeah, this is good one thrown right in there. Good way to kick it off. Yeah, and here's your first operation as we approach the X-Patriot neighborhood
There were shot where shots had been reported my new teammates clicked off there for moss safety's
I did the same
This was my first time with a live weapon outside of a supervised shoot the VLRA rolled to a stop, which is your vehicle
We jumped out and started searching the neighborhoods main road and smaller joining alleyways
I was partnered with Lasco and followed his lead as we as I walked down the road weapon at the ready locals
Gleared at me a ran away with nothing to see we got back in the VLRA and made our way to
PK zero, which is the road
This wide avenue was lined with large irrigation ditches and a mix of fields and homes all of which were either abandoned or derelict
Everything seemed eerily quiet to me. We returned to camp debriefed and I got into my sleeping bag
As I lay there I reveled in my new surroundings before falling asleep Africa was clearly new
But also no one was barking orders at me and there was no a pal or parade in the morning
The only requirement was to be ready for 0 900
So that's your first real mission that you rolled out on a very nice culture shock. Yeah, it's just cut off
Yeah, more just head on a swivel like what you know everything's new
But it's nice break in mission. Yeah, great. It was simple and it's like you go out nothing happens you get some of those
Gators first mission, Gators and the guys don't worry either that well. They might have seen me during the pre selection
But as a person they don't really they don't know me so I'm
Call it the center of that fact is I'm the new guy
You got to try not to stick out not doing anything dumb and just yeah, that was my focus
And then trying to keep up with what was happening because they had been there a while so at that point they you know had some some contacts and stuff
So they were in the game and I'm just not obviously
Yeah, this is this is something again. I was as I've reading this book. I was like and we're gonna go into this more
But just these when I think about what it feels like like
Even this first time you rolled out. I remember the first time I rolled out in Baghdad
It was luckily was the same type of operation. We went out nothing happened rolled back
but even just the the
The amount of vision that I had the amount of awareness that I had wasn't as good as it should have been
You know, I was like a little bit too amped up and it's like okay, how can
Talking about that hopefully guys can take a step back and be like all right cool look. This is what's going on
You know here's what it's gonna be and that's what you want but it's hard it's hard to it's hard to train even train for that
I mean you gotta do it. Yeah, you gotta do it. You gotta do it and that click
It's a whole different boom. Now you're at a different it's no more fun in games. You know theoretically it's it's a life-on-on
It's all right
all right
Going on you get another tasking and undisclosed number of rebels. We're pillaging the home of a high-ranking car official
We approach the target slowly and deliberately and S.U.V. was parked outside a white colonial house frame by large trees and thick elephant grass
We could see movement on the inside of the residents over the radio capping row
We'll order two leads approach the target more closely while the rest of us formed a defensive semi circle
The stillness of the night was quickly shattered by a burst of AK-47 fire at close range
It certainly had my undivided attention the first rounds landed out at the feet of our two teammates approaching the target last going
Corporal chief pre-gen a French Tahitian
They immediately returned fire trace around to cut through the darkness and some hit the ground and trees surrounding us
Instinctively those of us within with line of sight with the rebels returned fire
But it was difficult to tell exactly where the rounds were coming from and who is who cease fire capping
Rouls shouted we were told to secure our perimeter. This is my first firefight. I kept my focus despite the chaotic atmosphere
Where everyone was trying to gauge the situation?
Do as they were told and look out for the bad guy the house was cleared and its external floodlights were turned on
Unfortunately our night vision then became useless this
Intern did wonders for my natural night vision although I could see this surrounding wooded area my eyesight was off
Everything was out of focus kneeling over kneeling by a tree for cover with my from us shoulder
At the ready watching my arc I caught slight movement within my peripheral vision the motion came from a dark area
Within the taller trees. What is it my blood was racing from the intensity of firefight and my eyes were still adjusting?
What was what I saw actually anything looking over the barrel of my weapon?
I stood up and took three steps toward a more pronounced treeline the only sound was the faint crunch of
Dead grass under foot and my heart beats steadily pumping in my ears
Then I saw it again a movement near a tree now was clear to me the silhouette of a man was crouching
Taking up the slack on the trigger as I made my approach my concern was too fold was this a rebel or a teammate
If he was a rebel and I opened fire that would be my teammates response or what would be my teammates response?
This close to my arc of fire. I approached
As I approached it became obvious that the silhouette was a rebel bent over his weapon with his head down
At this range approximately three meters. I knew I had the upper hand this all unfolded within a minute or two of our initial
Contact with the rebels all of which had been chaotic. I approached the rebel from the side at a faster pace pointing my weapon as midsection
And spitting out the words bush paw don't move
Most central African speak some French and he twitched his head slightly to the side as if to acknowledge my presence and the command
He seems stiff and afraid to move keeping my eyes and
From us pointed at the rebel I
Shouted to Captain Rauble asking him to come to my position
He was visibly shocked to see that I had captured a rebel Captain Rauble immediately kicked the A447 from the rebel script
Grabbed the man by his arm and threw him to the ground and kicked him in the back of his head driving his face hardened to the dirt
We secured his arms and legs using tie straps attached to my webbing the rebel wearing his car
Army uniform looked up at me. I could see fear in his eyes
The team searched the surrounding area once it was cleared. We loaded our captive into the VLRA last going I followed
Behind in the SUV we recovered from the rebels since the rebels were treated as common criminals
We handed the guy over to the local police station then made our way back to the sections tent and parked the SUV
beside Colonel Pugus command tent Colonel Pugus. Thank the section for a job well done
Captain Rauble's debrief was shortened to the point. It was a close call and could have easily gone bad
It was a good lesson for all of us as an aside Captain Rauble told me that my reaction could have been a lot better
He was right. I should have dealt with the rebel more aggressively true
I had been good position to engage the rebel, but the situation didn't necessarily require deadly force
Having to make a life or death decision was new to me shooting or killing a fellow human being isn't a natural act or a first reaction
For a kid from Canada
It is a conscious and considered act after all what separates that's what separates professional soldiers from others
Our work would continue to provide me with opportunities to refine my new profession
The following day two rebels will found dead in the tall elephant grass
The rebel whose life I had spared
The police executed him it was quick and brutal justice and won all two from a year in this part of the world
Roger learning curves
Lasco, not even mentioned Lasco ski his grandfather was a Polish legionaire
Mary Delady in Indochina Vietnamese and
That's the history of his so he looks he's French he looks
Vietnamese with a Polish last name
All of it in one the legionaire with the history, but yeah that situation was definitely
You know I'm thrown into the the den learning curve lack of training lack of experience
Turn out well, but again lesson learned and took that with me to the next job
Yeah, this again for me this is really good sort of escalation of your of your learning right like even the even the first night
Where right maybe there's a few the very first mission you did were like nothing really happened luckily
This didn't happen that night because you had just a little bit more experience a little bit more ready for it and
You know what I think we talked about with you did through sometimes like or or any type of combat of training
You get used to it so now when somebody grabs you in a street fight for real
You're like okay, I know what to do but
Even if you're on the mat all the time even if you're a black belt in jujitsu if you haven't been in a real fight before
There's still that last little thing that last little hurdle but over come mentally where
You you need to act decisively and make things happen whereas
That's not what's happening on the training mat. It's just not a real fight has it's different and so the only way to
Overcome that as you got it like overcoming that's why you hope the first fight you get in is with a guy that was an NCAA
Collegiate wrestler or Golden Gloves boxer because
You won't learn much you won't learn much you'll learn that you don't know anything
Whereas if the first fight you get in is getting some drunk guy that's you know acting like an idiot who doesn't know how to fight cool
You learn and you can you can move in the right direction
So long book. Yeah, yeah, you can improve your game without with very limited risk
So yeah, I know it was yeah, definitely I'm curve there everything's new
But soldier at least some learning the trade and that's part of
You know becoming a soldier and growing as a young man is
You know you think okay, I want to be a soldier and you got these visions of things that you will be doing or want to do
But life will check that and show you what you're you're made of and what you're capable of and that's what I'm I'm seeing
What I'm made of what I'm capable of some of it's good some of this bad but growing up is learning and taking with that
Or with from that what you can and are you just completely stoked at this point though?
I mean from a perspective like a more focused on not
Fucking up God, you know, I'm new to the team. I'm not theoretically a team member yet
I'm just this replacement fortunate to be there
But I know eyes around me certainly the captain's watching me as the other guys
I mean that's keys your your peers right the guys are with you
So I'm just trying not to discover up
Yeah, and that that worked in my favor. I'll be it you know, maybe my reaction wasn't
textbook, but whatever and result was
Successful and you know once once once you're once you're part of a little something then you're you gain that a little bit of traction with the team
They start to know what you're made of and then continues on
Yeah, that's good
Yeah, you know
We trained so realistic. We were so lucky like the the capability that we had with training was just awesome
Like we'd be doing paintball and and this multi million dollar laser tag system and explosions going off special effects
It was really really good and it would really mitigate
This kind of opening shock that guys would get and that was always my goal when I was running training was to mitigate that opening shock
And you know what you see this a lot is with like you know with police officers that don't get great training
They they're day to day job
We'll escalate into a life or death they'll go they'll go
300 days or two or three or five years without ever drawing their weapon
Without with that with that idea, you know coming out of the academy and every day that that idea of drawing their weapon goes
Deeper and deeper deeper deeper into the negative possibilities of it happening and then all of a sudden it boom
It escalates and you can see that once again
This opening shock of wait a second, you know, there's someone with a gun or there's a bad situation
There's a woman screaming or whatever it is
They can't process it quickly enough and they don't have experience processing it and that's a real problem and
And that's why these you know what I've said before is like
I think police should should train one one fifth of the time like a won't 20% of the time they should be training
So five days at work cool one of those days you're just going through eight hours of training
That and who would you rather have policing your neighborhood?
Ten cops at the same time that are all
Haven't trained in a year or eight cops who have all trained a bunch the answer is so clear
But man, it just doesn't happen. Nope. Yeah, you can never train
I mean that's how you feel doing I mentioned later on as you know
You this is where you realize that shit. I should have maybe spent a little more time on certain things on the range
On the job training isn't necessarily the best
system but that's their system and that being said to is you know
I've just come off it's not like I just that was on time off and throw them into into bungie
I've been you know going full on from a year now
So it is what is and budget is obviously we don't quite have the same budget or they don't have the same budget as a
Seal team obviously and the technology
So they they make a work
And yeah, it seems to
Seems to come together. It's not perfect, but it's that's how they're there system works
Yeah, the the thing that really for a young or for anyone
Anyone going in these stressful situations the ability to take a step back into touch from what's happening is like
97% of the battle in these situations to take a step back and go
Okay, I see what's happening right now. Oh, I got we got enemy shooting inside this house
Okay, instead of me focusing on that I'm just gonna take a second
I'm gonna take a step back and everyone else is returning fire. That's awesome
I don't need to return fire. I'm gonna take cover behind this tree and I'm gonna take a look around
the ability to do that
Is so powerful compared to
Oh, they're shooting going on. I'm gonna return fire inside like that yeah, that what that does your brain same thing in the street fight like the ability to go
Okay, wait a second. This guy is approaching me right now. He's clearly drunk. He's got friends
I see that his friends over there
This is gonna be a bad situation if I get into it like just the ability and instead of looking oh this guy
Is coming at me really you want some that's not the way to go and then same thing with being a
Being a
Copper law enforcement
Will you see something unfolding instead of jumping into it?
Which is what your instinct is take a step back
Instead and and take a look around and that's a lesson that I was lucky enough to learn early on
And then I did get a nice gradual ramp up in combat operations where I was like, okay
Yep, I came back on okay, you know what I need to take a step back take a wrap off. Yep, you were cool. You saw it was going on, but you could do better
And and I'm very thankful that that happened
But you know even like the first time we ever getting shot at I was like okay
I see what's going on here take a step back. It wasn't freaking out. It was like okay cool
We can we can here's what I need to be doing because I'm in an leadership position. I want you actually look around and it was like okay
But that ability to take a step back to touch and look at what's going on is
So important and you know you're a free fall guy
It's like your first free fall jump where what do you see on your first free fall jump?
You see your off-timeter and your off-timeter and your off-timeter and your off-timeter and your rip-quarter and you don't see much
And then as you get better if you're not tumbling
Yeah, yeah
If you're telling me good thing if you're too old to be here
But as you get better you can see everything and all some of these one minute free falls from 13,000 feet
seem like a really nice long time and you get to observe all the stuff and enjoy it
But yeah, but the that's what you need to do is take that step back and train yourself to do that
You have to train yourself to do that if you train yourself to take a step back off the firing line
Quit staring down your gun look at the situation that's unfolding don't jump into the situation
Take a step back and I think in the training the pre-selection obviously we spent time
You know clearing houses on the range
Shoot all that type of stuff so I think they're able to to see the demeanor of the guys and see that you're not a
You know twitchy character that you're you know you're thinking about things
Which you know would get you into the team so I was I wasn't prone to just you know going full auto and
You will know you you know I was handled this situation
I mean I was more concerned about the opposite not fucking up more than here
Yeah, that was my
Yeah, I mean your instincts are you know you like you didn't freak out in this situation
You you made a decision now weather cap and I will agreed with exactly what you did. It's like okay
Maybe he was pissed because you because he still had his weapon or yeah, maybe he thought you should have just killed him
Which you know as six and one half dozen the other what you could have done there what you should have done there
If you killed the guy and it ended up he was carrying a stick or whatever
Then you're all of a sudden you're the bad guy for killing some civilian that was hiding in the woods
Carrying his baby or whatever right I mean you were worst case. Yeah, yeah, or worst case
You blew on blue situation, which is yeah, so
You know you were you were cognizant of what was going on like just the simple fact that you recognized it could be a teammate
Man there's some people that don't they go straight from zero to a hundred miles an hour and they're just thinking oh
That's a bad guy. They're shooting going on and they're pulling that trigger before they think about it
So you were thinking through it and it shows that the training that you did go through even though it might not have been this
The simulated combat that we did
You know when you're jumping out of airplanes when you're clearing rooms all time you have to learn to do that
Somewhat and obviously you had at this point and I was putting you know on that patrol. I was in the rear a position that was less
Well with responsibility, but yeah
Yeah, for sure Greg call right if I'm the leader of that you're a new guy you just showed up here
I'm absolutely you can be rare security. It was no fool. Yeah, obviously there for reasons so he was yeah
Yeah, it was learning my trade my craft
Welcome to the combat arms
Good way to learn that it was easy. Yeah, everyone will do it against now the situation starts to intensify
Embassy in foreign national neighborhoods were placed under a permanent guard and French military checkpoints
We're established along the cities main arteries and roads leading to international airport
The airport terminal was secured by French foreign Legion and the French Marines
Rebels have been firing RPG rockets and mortar rounds from their side of
PK zero into pro government neighborhoods and locals were being killed
Our new task was to deter this behavior. So here's another operation our objective was to find a good vantage point
And neutralize anyone with a weapon either on PK zero or on the other side
So this is your owner to a sniper over watch type position
We found a suitable side behind a small but sufficient retaining wall and agreed on arcs of fire
Within minutes bullets cracked overhead the shots were off target, but they clearly aimed in our position
Seconds later. I saw figure standing in a small opening
Between buildings he let out a short reckless burst of fire in our general direction before disappearing
The distance and lack of flight made it hard to see but the AK sound was definitive. I waited
Sure enough the stupid fucker fired at us again my response was quick. I fired a succession of single action shots at the target
Did I hit my mark? I wouldn't have been far off. I knew that. He didn't step out again
We then moved a short distance away and sought better cover the plan was to cross PK zero and start clearing buildings and
General area from where we had been targeted
We put down effective covering fire shooting through gaps in the wall directly at our target to well placed AC
58 anti-personel grenades flew straight hitting their mark the enemy ceased
Half of our section then made a short sprint across PK zero under the other half's covering fire
Then they remained across we waited in the dark no shots no rebel seen nothing
Putting on our night vision goggles we made our way down a dark embankment into taller elephant grass leading into a large open field
Without warning a high pitch scream stopped us in our tracks are lead it surprised a local with his pants down
Relieving himself
daylight was approaching and we checked the area to make sure he hadn't thrown a weapon into the grass
Then we called it a night returned to our sleeping bags
Yes, so we called after the initial I guess we called contact
We radio further us the team to come and they came and then we we crossed the the avenue
But yeah, there was another I guess
Experience in soldering and you know the chance to use my weapon for the first time
And learning from I guess the time before you know I there's no second guessing I knew
What I was looking at
And yeah, did my
Did my job and of course I love this section because guess what you guys are doing cover and in moving
Fundamental fundamental
Combat tactic and that's exactly what you guys are doing putting down covering fire maneuvering
And that's what you have to do and that's the that's the way it works
It doesn't matter if you're in the French for an Legion or if you're in the Marine Corps if you're in the sealed teams
That's what you do and I think we with a cross trading we learned from from others the best
Method of getting the job done and now we've been training on fire movement and stuff for for a while
Yeah, which is good
Got to do it. Yep
You guys get back on base and
While lying in bed and you're writing you're right actually right in the letter your back on base lying in bed writing and sweating in the
Central African heat increased radio chatter from the command tent got my attention
It wasn't long before an NCO stuck his head into our tent and said let's go
With the VLR a loaded we drove at speed to where third company section had ventured too close to camp Cassie and came under heavy caliber fire
Passing thirds VAB we disembarked and made our way through the bush to the high ground
Where the rebel fire had originated. I heard the distinct double tap of a femos my saying that right yep
Fumos up ahead because it's an it's an FA right
This is the right it's the rifle with like a magazine is out or sorry behind
Is it behind your trigger? Yeah, exactly. It's kind of a funky set up. Yeah, they've replaced it since but it's a good weapon
As I arrived on scene broken pridget
We're standing next to a four by four pickup truck with a 50 caliber machine gun mounted and it's better rebel fighter was lying face down in a ditch
He was alive but suffering the frex of Brooks double tap a few days later
Our third company came under fire in the same place once again. We deployed the third cut down a rebel with their VAB mounted
50 caliber he was lying on the road clearly dead the 50 caliber round had done serious damage ripping
half his chest away. It wasn't a pretty site
And then you're proceeding
Another situation after clearing a hot. I stepped out to the sound of an RPG rocket flying directly over our position
Exploding well behind us. We took cover at the same time trying to pinpoint the origin quickly regrouping
We continued our advance using fire and movement drills
One covering the other in short bounds. This is classic cover move
But as we progressed the shout grenade sent everyone diving
I threw myself on the ground covering my head in a natural and time honored fashion
a friendly high explosive AC 58 anti-personal grenade detonated on the ground sending dirt and
Shrapnel flying in all directions in the heat of battle the AC 58 had mistakenly been fired vertically by one of our team
I lay still for a few seconds and after everyone confirmed the OK we resumed our advance
So there you go somebody had an AD with the human error. I'd always creeps up
At least they had the
Sense to call it out, huh? Yeah, yeah, that's a that's a decision making like hey
Do I tell everyone what that was do you put on just unless exactly yeah because you you think yourself well
What are the chances if you had any kind of angle on that thing you'd be fine?
But if you fired that thing straight up
Oh yeah, that things come in back now nightmare
Luckily, you know
Found out no one was injured
That's an lesson yeah for everybody for those of you that we just kind of skip past
Understanding what happened the guy had a grenade launcher it's actually it's a
Any personal grenade that goes on the end of your film us and you can shoot it so it's like a rifle fired exactly
So it's a rifle fired grenade that
Can that way you can get and you don't have to throw a grenade you can use your rifle to shoot it basically and the guy
Had an accidental discharge had it pointed at high port up in the sky and shot it straight up in the air well
What goes up must come down let's come down
And so luckily he called out grenade
Because if you wouldn't have done that then you know if you're standing up on that thing hits oh yeah
The frag pattern of a grenade is up and out exactly what's inside for you
Sure that debrief was fun yeah kept in rollhead is
handful
This is where things start to get even more intense a French military delegation had met with rebel commanders at the gas station to
Discuss certain terms and it didn't go well as the French staff car left the rebels open fire
Some RPM snipers positioned in an apartment complex covering the meeting had it reacted appropriately the dead rebels at our feet
When the result of their effective market marksmanship it wasn't long before two rebel commanders and their subordinates
Return to the scene apparently under under and agreed truths our photo ops cell
NCO sergeant
Chief test then Marie
Test turnier test and year was instructed to take pictures for future reference
So that's you guys got called out to see what had gone down later that evening
We gathered in our OP and we could sense that things had changed Captain Roul gave his orders
a COS super poema
Armed with 20 millimeter cannon would engage this cities main power station in the early hours of the morning
It was our single or is our signal to assault the ponte Jackson bunker site and adjacent buildings
Once that objective was achieved we would venture deeper into rebel health territory
My initial responsibility in all this was to drive the P4 behind the teams of VAB and use it is cover
Once the VAB had smashed through the makeshift barricade of burned out cars on the bridge
I was to break left and assault the building adjacent to the rebel bunker
The second P4 following behind us would stop short of the bunker my second responsibility once I brought the P4 to
A stop was to dismount and fire an AC 58 anti-personel grenade into the buildings left window
Another team and teammate L. Wahidi would do the same to the right window and then we would clear the building
The VAB would stop and unload its personnel to clear the second target
Building to the right of the main road and then if needed provide close fire support for the team with its 50 cal
We discussed our fallback positions dealing with trauma and other details or scenarios once the briefing was completed
We were told to go kid up
With the with the P4 position behind the VAB I dropped the hinged windshield forward flat under the hood
The call to prayer rang out reverberating off in the distance I found myself considering my current situation
Having joined the French Foreign Legion only two years ago. I was about to assault a rebel-held position in central Africa with the regiments GCP
I was full of emotions nervousness uncertainty and excitement at what lay ahead fear was a factor two
I wasn't afraid of dying per se, but I didn't want to screw up
We were all being counted on we were after all a team
This is legit operation right here. Yeah, yeah, it's good shit
For you know a young young soldier that's out there to test himself and
Apply to us to his trade. This is this is
Getting there. Yeah, no, this is this is a legit operation and I'm honored to you know a lot of the guys are like
LYD with told me he was a senior in suit. He was like this doesn't happen all the time on your your fortune to be here
So consider yourself lucky, which I did yeah, yeah, I mean you but then again all the morning is to deploy your weight
Yeah, you got the air support. They're actually gonna start with 20 millimeter cannon taking out this
I mean, this is a this is a nice op. Yeah, the quality operation the 20 mil account
That's on another position, but it's our signal to go. Yeah, yeah, but I'm saying it's a big coordinated operation and you guys are doing a fall on a soul
That's a commencing with grenades. Hey, you don't shoot on the officers in the back. Yeah, I'm trying to pay
Fair enough and
Little nervousness a little uncertainty and then the standard and I'm not trying to
Take anything away from that, but everybody says myself included like what your afraid of is letting it let them someone down
Yeah, that's definitely letting down the team
So
Also what was the planning like like did you did you guys participate in the plan? No, so
Early in the day French Jaguars. I'd gone over and they had photos of the other site
Which Captain Rulhead and he basically briefed us there with the pictures we went through
So there was minimal time spent really going over it
But it wasn't complicated and this is straightforward. Yeah, boom more coming in we all knew our responsibilities and
There we go. Yeah, continue on as I sat there visualizing a walk through the plan. I detected a sound
I listened again carefully to make sure my adrenaline kicked in and I was certain I could hear the quiet
Thought of a Puma helicopters roader blades in the distance
Here we go. There we go. Where to came over the radio to start our engines
We looked at one another in smile the OP gates were open and the VAB pulled out with its distinctive turbo diesel engine
Whistling as it kicked in and accelerated down
PK zero the VAB then made its right turn onto the dirt road that led to Pont Jackson
It's 50 caliber opened up
The sound of the initial burst drowning out everything else
Shale casing bounced off the road hitting the hood of the P4 and the punch and smell of gunpowder flooded our nostrils
The VAB then hit the bridge is barricade sending the wrecked cars flying driving over the bridge
I felt a bloated or right side the impact hit hard enough that I had to fight to keep the vehicle straight
I managed to make the hard left turn and slammed on the brakes a yawning second of silence followed as the P4 came to a
Complete stop in a world-written wind of red dust
We were now at our most vulnerable no longer covered by the VAB and right on top of the target
Test 10 year on our P4's rear mounted
762 machine gun laid down covering fire and L. Y. D jumped out of the P4. I picked up my
Famos in the heat of the button the heat of the moment. I took the wrong one a spare carried up front
Everything seemed to be happening in slow motion
noticing my error I grabbed the correct Famos from us with the AC 58 loaded on the muzzle
Taking a step forward as L. Y. D
As L. Y. D's AC 58 left his weapon I located my target and fired then I reconfigured the Famos
I was farther away than planned but the AC 58 flew straight and hit the windows lower corner
Exploding and sending shards of cinder block concrete wooden glass onto the road
I quickly rechecked my magazine not to L. Y. D that we were good to go and we advanced to the building
This main entrance using fire and movement we reached the door and I kicked in as hard as I could
Through your four times until it finally gave way this wasn't ideal but it was reality not a Hollywood movie
We then cleared the building room by room
That's a wicked good assault kid off a sledgehammer would have been yeah
Sludgehammer would have been good because both the
Perfect door kicking is not as you know a good place to be
Yeah, I've had that feeling before I'm saying they're kicking a door on this target waiting for an AK 47 to
enter my back
But you know what it makes you do kick harder
Afterwards we joined our two teammates outside they had detained three out of less employees who were kneeling on the ground
Hands on their heads visibly scared children were used by rebels as air and boys
Or whatever was needed these kids smartly had hidden when we launched these salts and
The rebels fled
After being searched they were told to clear out the boys ran off and disappeared into the darkness
There's was a childhood a world apart from what I had experienced growing up our team regrouped however
I noticed my p4 had a nice little flat tire as the section could what did that? I think it was just uh one of the
Vehicles that we'd smash by you know a piece or whatever something yeah, yeah, slip the
As the section continued up the road I was left behind with sick Gorlan
Yes, you're Karlan to cover as I changed the tire
The Puma flew a loose orbit overhead hammering rebel positions in the distance with its 20 millimeter cannon with the tire replaced
We drove up the road to rejoin the section waiting some 500 meters away
Driving through a smaller crossroads we came under fire from a heavy caliber type round
Thank God their their aim was off. I watched a red trace around cut past our front
On marine VAB 20 millimeter at another intersection had mistaken us for a rebel vehicle
This potentially fatal error didn't really sink in right away and we both laughed nervously once we are clear of danger
Yeah, I don't know how close it was it's close enough to get our attention obviously and I accelerated
But yeah, they definitely had had us coin for someone else and yeah, yeah, and yeah, it's it's crazy
You know, I've I've told the story before there was a blue on blue and when I was in the battle of
Monty there was nothing happened but there was a
Humvee that engaged another Humvee like shot at another Humvee. I don't think they hit it
Yep, but that shows you I mean a Humvee is one of the most distinctive vehicles there is
You know, especially with the 50 caliber and the turret. I mean it's really obvious what it is and in Ramani
They didn't have any technical vehicles like you guys we're going against some people tech
They weren't the enemy didn't have to they had vehicle born IEDs
But they didn't have weapons mounted on them and they damn shard and look anything like a Humvee
And so think about what the mental state of a young soldier is that he's out in a Humvee in the city
He sees another Humvee and and shoot that yeah, like that's how amped up people get that and this is an
All fairness to the French the the rebels had pickups the same vehicle because they're obviously supplied for the French military
You know these things happen luckily
You know it's a third well, but yeah, it's certainly got our attention and it's something you don't think about it
You know when you're you're on this off whatever you're thinking the bad guy
You're not thinking the good guy and wham you know, yeah, I got to be thinking about the good guy too. Yes, you do that's
One of the things that we realized being in combat was you had to do at least as much planning to de-conflect with the friendly forces that
Yeah, as you did worried about what the enemy was gonna do
And I think when it's of soldiering, I don't know if that term even exists, but you got to think about you know the mistakes that others are gonna make not not just the enemy
Yeah, and by the way, I'd rather get shot at all day by the enemy. Yeah, then then friendly who actually hit their target more often
True
So here we are back to the book regrouped our section
We waited at the intersection and it wasn't long before the early morning light brought with it civilian casualties caught in the crossfire and family members
Asking for help we radioed for assistance and a French military ambulance arrived as the evening adrenaline war off
We sat idly watching it hit home that these people some seriously injured were innocent victims
We were soon replaced by a section from the fourth company and made our way back to the Jackson bunker site
Where we put where we were put on standby for a few hours on further search of the bunker and
Building several weapons and small ammunition caches were recovered
After what I sat in the driver's seat of my P4 drinking coffee as two teammates used to use the pyjow
Rear hold to clear the recovered weapons suddenly a lot loud shot ring out an old French
Boltaxian rifle had accidentally been discharged to Captain Raoul had a lot to say about that error personally
I was also unimpressed
I had coffee all over my combat best pants and webbing
I
Did fresh bro to we eventually returned to our own beds and I slept like the dead adrenaline affects people in different ways
But this adrenaline dump took took it to a whole new level after we had time to rest we were debriefed
The operation that achieved its objective the rebels had fled Bangguoo. How do you say? Nungi, Bungi
with their commanders retreating to their native villages
the
first RPIMA
The Marines and the rep didn't suffer any losses although two crew members in a sanghi armored vehicle were injured due to a friendly fire
Incident with the Puma overhead
The rebels suffered losses. So again, we're gonna blew on blues in every one. Yeah, and I'm like hopefully I'm not focusing too much on the
The human error on our side, but that is a part of so with respect to you when you're you're doing it for real
Yeah, people screw up and it's and it's learning from and it you know it was there and I was also
Aware of my surroundings, you know, I wasn't dumb enough to
Do not see that the locals were suffering but they have a tough life
I'm a fortunate kid from you know Western Canada privilege upbringing and I was there
You know supporting obviously the French efforts, but the same time I could see that
There's other people in this world that don't have it quite as well and they suffer the
The consequences of bullshit
Yeah, so that was always
Part of my time there. I'm not just
Kewed up soldier time. I'm also looking around at my surrounding thinking, you know, I'm a lucky guy
This is you know some people have a tough life. Yeah, no, I
Traveling the world is definitely
Left an impact on me in terms of how awesome it is to go
Well for me in America and then the thing about human error like I don't think you're focused too much on human error
I think you're focusing enough on human error that hopefully people that listen to this go. Oh, we better not assume
That's someone in the helicopter that's flying around at night looking at the ground is going to be able to
Discriminate which one of these vehicles is good guys in which one is bad guys even though it might seem real obvious
It's not or when you get lazy on the range and you're training think yourself when it's real
You don't want to be the one screw it up. No, the consequences are high so take your your training seriously
I was out in the desert just on a training operation. It was daytime
And I'm trying to signal I was a radio man as a young and listed seal. I was trying to signal a helicopter to come pick us up
The helicopter is probably at an altitude of
Like
No more than a thousand feet. It's low. Yeah, I have a smoke out. I've got like a red smoke out on the ground
And I'm waving an aircraft plant panel around and there's two helicopters a section of helicopters and they can't see me
And and I just I couldn't believe it
Helicopter pilots you just can yeah, yeah, and what I realized is like oh to me. It's real obvious because I'm looking at the sky
There's only one thing to look at these two helicopters for them
I mean they got I'm like well, I'm by the know all how many knows do they see you know
Pass the ravine how many ravines do they see they see literally
Miles and miles and miles and square and I mean eventually it did but it cued me in that
Man it thing you got to understand other people's perspective
One of they seeing same thing from a leadership perspective like one is my
Grant think what are they seeing out of this situation? Does it make any sense to them? Have I explained it clearly enough like actually?
Probably know you haven't
So gaining to know other people's perspective or looking at things from other people's perspective is an important tool and what you're saying here
You know focusing on human errors like people are gonna make mistakes. I mean
People are gonna make mistakes whether it's a negligent discharge with some recovered weapon or it's shooting a friendly forces
I mean like that's gonna happen and you have to do everything you can to plan to mitigate that as much as possible
It's hard to hard job
And by the way, I mean
When I was before the war started
I didn't think that that
Blue on blue was a possible thing to really happen and you know Jason Gardner who's an awesome guy who's been on this podcast and
He's talking about
Having a blue on blue during train. I was running training and he's kind of telling the story about
How this blue on blue unfolded and he was the same way when I said look you know
People are gonna have blue on blues and he kind of was rolling his eyes thinking the everyone else must suck so bad
You know that's ridiculous and sure. I've you put that pressure on him and
Man things get complicated and people make mistakes and the world looks different through night vision and the world looks different from different angles
That's why you got to keep things simple
By the way, log combat
Train hard fight easy. Yeah
Did you on being left alone for a few days with ample time for sports sleep general recovery in a beer two at the camps for you
Was a much needed reprieve but it wasn't long before we were briefed on our next task
So here comes another one approaching our target a home-built better than others. We waited outside
It's entrance until signal to enter as we broke through the door. It was obvious that our target wasn't there
But as family was and they were terrified the younger children were shaken to the bone and the mom and an older sister
We're trying to comfort the kids to know effect who could blame them here. We were a bunch of phone soldiers with weird equipment on our heads
Bursting into their simple life. We left the family with bottles of water and some wise advice for the woman's husband
Our efforts continued and we said ambushes on remote trails leading to rebel villages
Hiding in the bush through the night cradling my weapon and wearing envy jeez my eyes started to play tricks
Shadows on the trail began to look like rebels slowly sneaking up on me not to mention the bugs relentlessly buzzing around and
Crawling on me these were long nights and all in vain
Our
Stay in the car was coming to an end and the rep was going to be relieved by another French regimen
ammunition that would soon expect expire needed to be spent
So we'd just dedicated an entire data working on our contact drills firing as many rounds as we could
Captain Raoul arrived
Later in the day and I was duly summoned with an order to stand to attention
I was promoted to corporal
He removed the Velcro premier class patch from my combat vest and replaced it with corporal rank a company with a solid punch to the chest
So it's stuck properly
So there you go get your uh get your promotion and then it was back home
Well back to Calvier back in Calvier everyone was given leave except Mwa
Salak Garcia both fresh off leave and I were going to the center national
Day train Monte Camando
So Camando training correct you see any see we passed the pre entrance exam consisting of a time to relay with sprints push-ups situps chinups any
obligatory rope climb at the regiment gym
We then left from our say by overnight ferry
On towards
Toward to lose so what's this course all about so this is the French commander course they have three levels one two and three
In order to be a GCP team member you have to be level two command of qualified and then obviously your halo qualification
So this is the level one two okay, I had done my level one with the first company got it
Yeah, so this level two, but it's done for the cost which is the sprints are the French special operations command
So everything from their G-Gen which is their French any terrorist team to Air Force for their controllers
regular army and then their
Commando Marines which is based off similar to the seals is that you know his bear yeah, who bear there's a couple of there's four
But yeah, so we had all come together and do the course. Oh, that's
Yeah, pretty good to have a unified course was and my first you know time to
To see other soldiers
Because I'm still junior at this point and I haven't done any courses except with other Legionnaires
So this first time I kind of get thrown into the mesh with other
French actual French soldiers now are you looking at their lifestyle?
Seeing a difference it's starting we got I've been busy. Yeah, I can't complain
But yeah, you start to fatigue and start to kick in and here I am
You know starting a course and you must be feeling good too like I mean just from that one deployment to the car
Right, that's got a that's that's pretty all that's an awesome deployment for 19 whatever was this 1995
Six 1996 that's a freaking good deployment for
1990 it is agreed yeah and unfortunately that I as I said got to partaking it wasn't the I mean that wasn't a normal deployment
I'm assuming no no and then the fact that I'm not a qualified team members
So I'm fortunate that I've gotten thrown into the team that way
But I don't think I'm there mentally. I'm thinking I need my command of course
I need to get to the the jump course. I need to you know be a proper team member and pull my way
So I'm thinking we're just I got to cover these these courses these checks and the box is I'm not really looking back
Think oh this great you know this will be chapter seven
Not at all it sounds like
Sounds like you did some more maritime stuff with this I'll go to the book here and leave you way learn six
Manzodex were introduced into the training
We sat in the crafts the lower deck and guys got seasick from surging swells at times this made vomiting contagious
Finally never soon enough the boats along with sound and we would make our way out of the deck of
Intims of six zodiacs were thrown over board at speed and we followed jumping to the sea wearing our wetsuits
zodiacs were deliberately flipped upside down and we waited beneath them
Our bodies shaking in the chat and teeth chattering uncontrollably from the cold if we were too slow
The instructors would keep us in the water for longer periods of time the least my least favorite training experience by far was
Swarve on my fucking nerve
This is this is the is that what you guys called this dog that was just guys. What you made up?
Okay jammed inside the tarp covered trucks with our backpack the vehicle
Speed off and then we were ordered to put on our wetsuits in the dark cramped moving space
The driver purposely squirred violently back and forth sending us crashing into the sides or piling up to the front as he break
Tard the tactic that
The tactic was that half of the group would make themselves as small as possible in the corners or signs of the truck
So the guys in on the inside could change then we'd switch out
Tempers flared, but we got it done. Yeah, that's just a typical
Fuck with you. Yeah, that's literally a
Tempers would flare me you get an elbow crush side of the head you know things got yeah, maybe I have to figure that over yourselves
a way to get a
Uh first thing money is again I'm skipping broad swaths of this book, but I'm just hitting some of the highlights
First thing on Monday morning we took part in hand-to-hand combat drills to get us back on track
Then we went straight on to an obstacle course rock climbing was on the curriculum with a
Fastening lesson on knots which we immediately forgot but would be tested on later in the classroom
We worked on explosive charge calculations and reviewed the explosives range safety rolls
Continuing on a bit that evening we were woken by stun grenades and German shepherds barking in the barracks doorway
Instructors in ballacloves dragged us outside and covered our heads with potato sacks the trucks had their high beams
Directed at us and we were put in stress positions with dogs barking on our faces
Our personal belongings such as compass knife and flashlight or lighter were taken this was the prisoner of war phase of training
Stress positions were quite annoying which is the idea and if an instructor notice you slacking off
You would slap you upside the head and make you either correct the position or change to another one
The exaggerated push-up position with your rear end as high as you could get it was effective the slabs were not overly hard
I certainly don't think any of us were close to quitting we knew this was coming
So you're just getting your yeah, they're just playing with us. We saw you nothing they didn't slap you hard
Uh
Yeah
The first slap that I got at Searschool which was our putt
I got slapped so good. I was not expecting it
You know I kind of have I think I had like a because I was 19. I think I had a good cocky look on my face like whatever
Dude, I got you keep in mind these the training in seals are a rig force. It's not legion anymore
So they're not quite as
Apped at
Smack in it one
Yeah, yeah, we would it so this was a regular navy guy this guy that slapped me in the case
There's a regular navy guy and I'm sure he had wrecked red my dossier and said oh here comes a rambo
Well
Let's check out some of that. Yeah, so I was giving some cocky answer
You know he's like what you what is name because it was a Eastern block
Simulation so they're all speaking with fake Russian accents so he's like what is your name? And I'm like what do you worried about?
I mean full I don't think I think he's I think he honestly slapped me as hard as he could like I mean it was that hard
But was it the kind of it isn't palm or like he slapped me as hard as he could you know
Like but there's a difference so you're watching a slapping competition. Yeah, I know I'm good guys and they get you with this part
Not good yet, but if you get this part it says that's a superficial he slapped me
I'm not sure which part of the hand
But good enough
Let me put you sweet. It kind of rang my bell a little bit
Yeah, he's probably got a little bit of professional part a little bit of professionalism. Yeah
I think so
check
Two of our larger coursemates were this is again fast forward to a larger course
mates were told to retrieve Jerry cans of water stashed roadside a detonation of white powder followed
Simulating two casualties using our combat vessel metal poles provided for structures
We extracted for what I assumed was several kilometers at some point
I could see headlights in the dark down the road as we arrived
I realized it was a military transport the instructors then casually told us that we were done
Confused I asked the instructor if he was sure we were exhausted
And then completing the Commando Brevei. Is that what you say? Brevei?
Brevei exactly was physically challenging and that was something I liked
Having the feeling of being pushed to my limits
So you get done with this that's phase two that's phase two. So that's my command of qualification now would be the jump course
to be a qualified GCP team member now
Now you're back on base in Calvary
I was summoned to the CEA company building and presented myself to
The duty NCO sitting behind his desk. He ordered me to get gills as I said a jeel jeel
He ordered me to get jeels dressed uniform and kept me from his locker
It was an unusual request. I asked a why what's going on without even looking up from his paper work the NCO replied casually
He's dead
I was stunned that shock was compounded by the Cavalier even Calus way the NCO had broken the news
I was angry but controlled my feelings and went to jeel's room
I recovered as uniform and kept me from his locker
Inside were photos of his fiance Stephanie
I quickly networked with others to find out what the hell had happened news eventually trickled back to the regimen
The CEA first company and section had been deployed to Brazaville in the Republic of Congo
Fighting between government troops and militiamen loyalty the former leader had escalated requiring a
Vacuation of some 6,000 expats caught up in the Civil War
Jeels had been killed during ex-patriation efforts
His body was due to arrive in Calvary from Africa the next evening and corpus from the CEA's
rear guard would man his honor guard while he lay at rest in the regimental chapel
Six of us were designated a carriers coffin onto the parade square for the regimental ceremony scheduled for the following day
I was excused from course to get my uniform ready and assist in the preparations
A small private ceremony for Jeels family and Stephanie was held before the regimental parade
Where all the companies not on tour were present in full parade uniform
Jeels coffin was moved from the chapel to the center of the parade square
The French minister of defense awarded Jeels the Post-Jumist Croy
Deville Valor military the military medal
The cross of Valor then the regimen sang a regimental song
You could have heard a pin drop when it was over
It was a moving moment
Captain Raoul indicated that I was to attend
dinner that evening
in Calvary for the four Jeels and Stephanie's families Stephanie seemed to be taking everything and stride
But I'm sure she was doing her best to put up a strong front
I could see that Jeels family was hurting
Everyone was I wasn't really sure
What to say or how to act?
Jeels who is a good man a good soldier and
Like many other legionnaires before him had made the ultimate sacrifice
Yeah, so Jeels I had befriended when I got to Bunga he was new on the team but it completed all his
prerequisites courses so he kind of took me not under swing but we'd run together
You got everything on what to expect in the commander course the jump course some of the personalities with an
team like be careful this guy doesn't like you know and so yeah he was a you see a guy and when we got back to
Friends Stephanie and Meta said one of the French Air Force bases and brought sandwiches for us to eat and so I got to meet her
So when I came back from commander course I was doing my medics course that they're running on the in Calvary and that's when I was summoned to the
the front desk
and
Control my my temper
Which
Is mentioned because sometimes a legion can be that way cold and calis is what it is
And yeah Jeels was a good man. He was actually former French airborne quick the French military to join the legion because he wanted to
Give her to go and
I paid the ultimate sacrifice so as I thought an important story to share because a lot of people don't
Think or see that when they think of the legion that there's good men out there
risk in their lives and some of them
Pay for it. Yeah, and I didn't read it, but you you go through pretty good detail of what it happened and so that's another reason for people to
To get the book so you can get that story
Yeah, and they're out there supporting valid efforts. It's not this misconception that the legion is you know
I'm third thing
They're they're supporting humanity and
Helping where they can yeah absolutely did that
I mean now is your is your viewpoint of what you're doing changed at all at this point
In which way in other words
Did you have any feelings of hey
I'm I'm a legionaire we deploy I've been in firefights
I can't be killed nothing can happen to me
Did you have any thoughts like well actually 100% that was definitely an eye opener where this is yes series outcomes
Yeah, it was so bring I guess to a certain point and you realize that yeah, there's a risk of there
Something you take for granted
So she had a peacetime
Army because really things hadn't ramped up that point Afghanistan and kicked off a rack so
You know it was not a common occurrence for a
That's what we're from the Rep to be killed in action. So do you know when the last one that was killed in action?
Prior to just
I don't I couldn't list it off had there been any others while you were there
No, there's certainly like two at least two or three years
Yeah, so it wasn't wasn't common occurrence by any means
Yeah, well you you don't expect it right because there's no active full yeah
War is going on and
Their reception was good to see you know how he was treated the the efforts of the government the French military and the regiment itself you know was nice to see that
He was thought about after and given the proper honor
deserved which is nice
Yeah, how many people leave the French military to join the Legion?
There's a chunk as I said in the ranks about a third our French nationals. Obviously all the officers are in a little bit
What was his reason behind it?
I would assume that when you're in a French regiment the rep is kind of the
The level to attain and the Legion that has a different history and and discipline
So I'm guessing based on what he told me he just wanted to come and give it around for himself
Yeah
Because we'll work together right so they'll see it and they'll march by it
I don't know how many steps a minute and high pitch voices in their songs and then the Legion's turn and it's slow and deep boom
It's it's impressive to be honest with you
So I think that you know not necessarily that but just the whole the whole vision is tempting
You're appealing. He wanted what the young man wants. Yes. Go try it
Awesome salute
At this point
You're told that the sections qualified medics were headed to Marseille
Dispend a week with the cities military firefighters as paramedics and this is something that we do in America too
We'll take our well at least the seal teams do it. We take our young seal medics and send them out to
Compton California or Detroit or Baltimore to be in really bad
neighborhoods to get to work on restaurant. Yeah to get to use their craft live
Marseille's firefighters were renowned for their professionalism and you got some good
Not good you got some pretty heavy stories in here our next call was to assist a young boy who hadn't been able to
Reach his grandfather we met the nine-year-old outside his grandfather's large apartment building
Which was one of the cities which is we in one of the cities tougher housing projects
Whereas parents where I had no idea but it wasn't my place to ask really we took the elevator to one of the upper floors and knocked on the
Grandfather's door nothing we knocked again several times still nothing the NCO check the handle the door was unlocked
Calling inside he took two steps through the doorway and then turned around ordering one of the paramedics to take the boy back to the elevators and wait with him there
The NCO indicated that I enter the apartment saying don't touch anything
I immediately recognize the smell as I was walking inside I noticed a plastic shotgun casing on the floor
Then two legs partially obscured behind a corner when I looked around the corner the grandfather's body was lying there
The part the upper part of his skull was missing blood and brain matter covered the walls and the balconies glass sliding door a shock
Unlay next to him
I then realized I was standing on some of his teeth. It was a graphic and sickening site and the last thing I had expected when writing up the elevator
Another incident made an even bigger impression a young girl maybe seven or eight years of age couldn't wake up her mother
The doctor pronounced the mother deceased as the girl stood in the doorway watching an empty bottle of pills was recovered from her mother's bedside
Then you continue on another
dealing with the city street people is also something new to me quite often these were the same individuals day after day night after night
The homeless drug addicts drugs or people suffering from mental illness most likely all four
It was an eye opener. I watched a male patient in his late 40s unravel as we tried to administer first aid to his self-inflicted knife wound
The paramedics actions and attitudes were always professional
Here was a guy who had just urinated, defecated and caught himself yet the paramedics remained polite and firm with him while trying to help
The NCO was tougher more direct. I guess you had to be in that type of role
And that's you know, I always say thanks to the firefighters and paramedics on the show, but you know
And I know this because when when our guys would go out and work with you know the paramedics and firefighters in big cities or even in small cities
Like this is what you do with and you deal with it all day long
Yeah, it's the freaking hard job depressing too. That's why I think you know why I kind of mentioned is
You're you're in a regiment you're amongst your peers at everyone's kind of you know
Physically fit type A possibly and then you get thrown into the real world and you see kind of the the sad side of humanity and
The suffering of certain people and you kind of forget about that and then you see the realities you're like shit man
There's more out there than than I'm aware of so it was a good
Learning experience empathy, but also you know also reject me as I'm you know
Do I want to be a severe am I happy doing what I'm doing what did that what did that experience lean you towards
Definitely happy with my
choice of
Direction at that point
Yeah, I'm not a big fan of big cities and crowds anyway. It was a good experience
Not something I certainly wanted to get out and become a paramedic myself
But it's nice to see other people doing their trades learning from them as a medic
You know mentioned the book. It's not something that I wanted to do but I thought it was it was definitely a good skill to have as a soldier
Just for yourself, but also for your teammates
But you know hospitals all that kind of just
People with you know mental it's sad and I'm not a huge fan
So it was it was a good eye opener for me to see
What's out there yeah and can't myself lucky you know I'll be at home in the French Foreign Legion
Still a healthy individual
Yeah, could be worse. Yeah surrounded by a bunch of healthy individuals. It's like a good life people you can trust comparatively
uh
After that you get sent to the SOGH
Which is basically halo score, right? Yes. It's the free falsk glue. In fact the
SAS used to go there for their training until they started doing their own okay. Yeah, and it sounds like it's kind of a gentleman's course
And what I mean by that in America means it's not like bootcamp at all. It's the other under the spectrum like hey
You do you're supposed to do everyone's cool the instructors are there to help you and they're not talking down to you or anything like that
So that's the atop this course is for the cost so everyone from as I mentioned same as a commander course
It's a French
Base rig force done for the training for the French airborne so yeah, it's super laid back in a bit of a
A change for me going from the rabbit like a shock to your face
Yeah, yeah
This is the old turn
uh as you finish it up that school
Yeah, we go to the book pear shoots were returned and I think the course commanding officer and instructors for how well they treated me
I left a brand new legionnaires kepty with the Canadian flag inside it at the instructor's bar
It's cool
I said my goodbyes to my course mates and then caught a ride back to command to who bear
Base at two long naval ship yard where Francis new aircraft carrier was docked
You bears base was off on its own in a wooden area hidden away from the rest of the naval yard
I looked at its miniature submarines and high speed zodiacs all of the impressive state of the art equipment
What really caught my attention was a US nuclear tax submarine docked at a long jettie below who bears main training building
A US seal team was in town across train with them. I was envious to say the least but I had no time for envy
I needed to mentally prepare for returning to the legion way of doing things
it's a fact
that in a bid
To set itself apart from the rest the legion maintains iron discipline and places heavy restrictions on personal freedoms
Although this works in short as a short term solution it results in a high turnover
I also need to get a proper haircut before I'm painting my way back to Calvary
I've done trouble for the during the course I'd let it go
The officer charge was like you keep on your soul eagerness brothers
Yeah, yeah, that's what you know what we were talking about earlier. I mean this is this is how
This is how so many people for instance
So many seals stand the seals for 20 years because there's a lot of personal freedom
I know now look the standard is high and if you drop below that standard it's not gonna be good for you
It's not gonna work out well, but if you're doing your job and you're doing it well
You get a lot of personal freedom and it's awesome
But I mean and like we already talked about it
You kind of select for it because you give certain amount of freedom along the way, but yeah the
The
Legion
Doesn't do that. No, and I'm sorry to pick up on that you know during this course
I was there for for a chunk a couple of months
So working with you know the guys from who bear another regent. You see what a normal military life is like you know they go home and stuff and that's thing
You meant I didn't you mention but like on the command of course and during the freefall courses on the weekends
All the guys go home to the girlfriend's families or whatever. I don't
So that's something for you know a Legion error
That's me taking consideration. It's it's it's full on you're not going home on the weekends
And that has its effect so I'm starting to see
When you're going to the Kandokore so even this freefall course you're not going home on the weekends
Just because you have nowhere to go
Are you still restrict you're not restricted? No, they're sorry. We're free I would go down to we would go into Spain and take advantage of our freedom
And that was another aspect of I open I mean people the other
You know
You make friends and you do things that now you know young young men do and I know I'm going back to Calvary
Which is no longer gonna be that way so I'm starting to look around thinking you know long term is this what I want to be
Yeah, albeit I'm somewhat fresh to the team but it's it's still that
I'd decide for next year so I was going to be doing six years
But I'm starting to think already is this something I want to do is a career
Become an NCO and and do in the French system you need 15 years to get a retirement
You got a little taste of Spain and freedom and just yes
Exactly, you know, yeah, I'm starting to think yeah
Which is tough on the mental side things right if you're not in you're not in yeah, so it's starting there
Yeah, it's almost better not to see it as mentioned
The Legion has changed since they're not quite as aggressive and stringent on the thing
For that reason the turnover is to give the guys a little more leeway to keep the guys around especially now that they're active and busy
Yeah, there's yeah, there's no real need if you have any idea what percentage of people go pass their first
I don't want to sell another check check all right
Back again the second to fourth companies were headed to Chad, Africa for a four-month torn support of operation
Epivier
It's objective was to prevent Libya from disdabilizing Chad
Chad and threatening Francis interests so back in the game again. We boarded an airbus a
300 on September 12, 1998
And on the on the east coast of Corsica flew over the mountains of North Africa and across the rusty dunes of at the Algerian Sahara
In the northern Chad you get to Chad
You're on the ground here we go next on the agenda was a three-day section training exercise
We loaded the VLRAs and started a three-hour drive to east to shoot to a shooting range
The paved roads served soon turned into a dirt track with large sun-baked ruts that have been carved out by larger transport trucks during the rainy season
It was a nightmare to drive on and every bump reverberated in my back
We drove through flat and air-red country passing through small villages were smiling locals waved at us
Their lifestyle with the most basic of amenities was practically primitive compared to what I had seen before
Even in Central Africa
But they looked happy
These images stuck with me. I knew I had opportunities in life well beyond what these people could even dream of
So you you say that in there and I was kind of highlighted at thinking this these are all things that are starting to kind of
assemble in your head that
You're thinking maybe that there could be a life outside the Legion. Yeah, 10%
Something I found different and interesting now. We're back in this camp that you are in Chad something I found different
and interesting was the camps employment program where local men women and teenagers or boys as they were referred to
We're hired to wash our clothing and clean our barracks rooms. They were paid a set rate wage controlled by the camps of
Administration
It was a good service and injected some much-needed money into the local economy so we hired Abbo
He worked hard and we gave him any extras we had or things we didn't really need that he could use on
Weekends Legionnaires could frequent the cities authorized bars and restaurants all of which were within a small city block
On weeknights we were confined to camp or the
Rose events
Rose devol
A local restaurant and bar with a dance floor and working girls
This was new to me too
CFB Wayne Wright didn't have a rose devol in the age of AIDS awareness the women were subject to medical checks by the French military hospital
If they wanted to frequent the Rose sexual encounters were not advised
But it was a reality so the French military exercise precautions the women were extensively self-employed
Private contractors I guess you can say and the military's only involvement was providing free medical visits a lot of women were from Somalia and E. P. E. Ethiopia
Some were tall elegant and attractive and they put in a lot of effort to dress the part
Inevitably it wasn't long before Legionnaires were getting into trouble at the Rose devol
So that's another thing that's just different yeah, yeah
Not really not really seen much of the Ethiopian prostitutes in western Canada. No
No, no, no. How about trouble follows?
There's another scenario that unfolded wire down there. I was a woken by a P4 approaching at us at speed honking
It's towards shots for a medic soon followed. I jumped out of bed through on my combat pants and runners and sprinted outside a panic regular force corporal
Chief asked me to follow him to meetry and I grabbed our webbing and jumped into our P4 with Smithy at the wheel
We followed the corporal chief to the garrison's medical building where we found several people standing around another P4
Demetri approached the casualty who is lying in the back of the vehicle. I could see his legs hanging out the rear door
Clad and blunt torn blood soaked pants my assumption was that he had been hit and dragged by a vehicle in town
Demetri yelled for an IV which I prepared and handed him
I was able to see what we were dealing with the victims right arm was severed at the elbow his bear chest was
Pockmarked with impacts and his face was missing from the chin up
The footwell of the P4 was filled with blood a quick assessment revealed that his jugular had been severed
And his circulatory system had collapsed due to massive blood loss
The military doctor arrived soon after us
Prenouncing the victim deceased almost immediately his body was quickly covered with a sheet
And we moved him from the P4 to the medical building and that was that
Apparently during a live fire exercise that morning an AC 58 anti-tank grenade
hadn't detonated on impact the range procedure is to wait 30 minutes and then destroy the grenade in a controlled
Explosion, but you don't touch it for some unknown reason the victim had picked up the grenade and it exploded
When I heard his name it rang a bell he had been an NCO in the first company and left behind a wife and two daughters
This tragedy was a timely reminder to all of us that if you get complacent
It can kill you
Yeah, dumb
But
At this point in the story in my career, I'm kind of tired of the training
I don't know if I was spoiled because of bungi
But yeah, I'm sort of not get lazy, but I'm there's a bit of complacency coming
I'm just like I went through the motions here, you know, let's let's soldier not pretend
Yeah, Chad wasn't necessarily a highlight
Experience there was some I don't get into much, but within the the section there was some
Negative stuff going on which is hard on any team
More about just I think the lack of stuff that was going on we had a new CO that wanted us to
March and sing more I don't get into it because it's not really my place to
To mention or the common on but Chad was kind of a a pivotal
Tour where it was like I was starting to slide on the downward trend towards leaving
It was a good experience
We did jump out of the back of the helicopter's a lot and that's where I started
Watching them thinking that's pretty and I'll come there towards you
Yeah, and
The Rose Devolves story it's in the book because we become the military police for the Rose Devolves not
Personal yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you mentioned that is that's what I try to leave it at like hey
There's they're caused trouble and then eventually you guys have to become military police there and
But at least I think I mean you send Legionnaires 20 you know 20 to 25 year old into an African country for four months
You need an outlet. Yeah, it's just a fact of well, you know if you not will find it elsewhere and they get problems right you mentioned the one Legionnaire who was
His dad was a Polish Legionnaire and yeah, he's what mom was a Vietnamese well, there's think of all the American you know
The American
Service members that have got wives over the past however many years wives from Japan wives from the Philippines wives from Germany
What we know the seal team used to be up in Scotland as much as guys that had wives from Scotland
Like you put the eyes in the middle of these places well, they're gonna meet the girls
That's what's gonna happen
Roger, so so at least they had the fort you know fort thinking to think listen
We got a protector guys. They're gonna go out there and find it if they we don't so yeah, so it's smart
Yeah, the American military does not do that. Yeah, the American military does not do
A
Metaphylchex and brothels. No, you're not getting that no, it's not happening
All right, so now you're at another military ski school and you're actually
Seeing saving private Ryan and you get a recall one of the other guys get to phone call and here we go when we arrived
Captain Martin briefed us on the situation a French
J-Dorm, he said it's on down. John Dorm. I swear I looked at I listened to that word getting played like
19 times and it's exactly how it looks like it says, but I keep screwing up. John Dorm at the French Ambassadors
Residence in Braz-Aville, Republic of Congo had been shot dead by her military rebel
the
cause first RPI
M.A. had been sent to secure the Ambassadors residents and the GCP would relieve them
Captain Martin
Designated those of us who needed to return to Calvary the following day to prepare I was chosen
We were dismissed and told to be ready in the morning. I handed my handed in my issued kit
Collected my from us from the armory and packed my gear Demetri wasn't chosen
He looked like he might jump from the barracks in second story window. I felt his pain
The final BSM exercise which ran the entire following week didn't inspire anyone
And so this is another thing I just got to point out like I'm throwing in these names like Demetri and
You talk about these guys throughout the book and I'm not doing justice of the other characters that are in here
So I apologize. No, that's why people need to get the book
to learn about all these different guys and that's just a
That
Situation where here you are getting called into a critical combat scenario where you know
There's gonna be risk and of course what's Demetri he's not going in these past sucks
Yeah
Then you have one more little thing in here. You said tell the story about these military issues sunglasses
Then sucked and you are constantly wearing your civilian sunglasses which work and there's a
One of the NCOs
Instructors is kind of like
Giving you a hard time. That's the captain from the second company. So the officer. Yeah, he's giving you a hard time about it
And then and finally what you do is you just kind of do what you're supposed to do and you carry two sunglasses
Whenever he's around you put on the rock the correct military issued once but you have a little quote here
It's as cooperate graduate
Roger and you know, I just wrote next to that play the game and it's like you know
Some people they want to let their ego get in the way and sometimes you got to put your ego in check and just play the game
Just cooperate play the little stupid one worried that sunglasses cool and the thing was during the the pre-training
We had I worn the issued ones and I had sunburn my eyes which is painful if you have that experience
So first thing I did not sunburn
It's brutal they close up
So it's happening when you were skiing yeah the pre-trained up to the course we went up to the mountains and in course in
Corsica and
Versio they have like a the rep has a shallow there for training and I had done exactly that it it
Rain so all the snow on the mountain was ice so it reflected the sun the next day and
What you would go right through the glasses or underneath so you're somebody the flash the snow
Rocks are actually actually I've the eyeball the iris and basically just closes up. It's painful
It's it's not much fun hence my acquisition of the best glasses possible right away
Which were what just your civilian just some nice
Yeah, you be blocked by the wall block from leftovers from the M.M. Food you know
As military issue tech stuff is and
Yeah, so I had those on and he was like it those are military issues so I just
Play the game when he was around. I would yeah
Anyway
It wasn't vain it was it was more
Effectiveness of the glasses
Yeah, well after
I think they look better to the left strip of course, but just we give me sunburned eyes like I'm not wanting that no snow blind
So here we go we're rolling now into
Into the DRock right the Republic of Congo that we're going yep correct
Braswell here we call that the DRock
As a step-up the ramp I noticed that the airport tower and terminal were stippled with impacts of different
Calibers from recent fighting
President
President Dennis Sasu Nguoso
his paramilitary group referred to as the cobras
Controlled certain neighborhoods within the city as well as the airport other areas were controlled by groups with similar
Early absurd names like the ninjas or the ramboats
But they were no joke life here was cheap and these groups had been all been involved in
Combat and numerous atrocities as we approach the city center smithy pointed out
The buildings used by the Congolese Army as firing positions during the ambush
He showed us the exact area where jails had been killed
I could feel the weight of that sections history among my teammates many of whom had been there that day
We entered the empoco neighborhood where the presidential palace and government buildings were located and the area
Most heavily affected by the recent fighting and poco was a ghost town
We will varway between scorched a bit scorching abandoned vehicles alongside burned-out houses
My first so now you guys are doing like
Um
Some duty my first guard shift was that evening armed with my famos and VG's webbing at small loss back
I made the short walk by my observation bunker on the perimeter or two my observation bunker on the perimeter as well
I was already sweating from the humidity days prior we had been freezing in the alps tonight
We were roasting in the Congo
Gunfire within a couple hundred meters of me caught my full attention. I heard a crack in a thump of the bullet
There was some shouting then silence nothing came of it. This was additional background noise you got used to
I watched the shadows listening and trying to get a feeling for my surroundings then came another sudden explosion of noise
Something had hit the OP roof above me hard
immediately my heart rate went well past the red line into transit
I instinctively ducked down and took off took my
Famous off safety what the fuck was that as I tried to figure out what had just happened
I heard something heavy rolling on the tin roof above me
The softball size object dropped off the ledge with a dull foot. I immediately realized what it was
a ripe mango that had fallen from the tree above
Many more mango alerts followed but I kept my cool
Uh
And actually you actually mentioned on there that when the next guy came to turn over
Let it tell if it was a rough effect
Let him join the experience
Our captain was
talking about a little about your leadership here our captain was more flight than flight. That's how I felt anyway
It was his attitude. This is a new story. This is a new officer. Yep. Yeah
If we thought of ourselves as a leap we should act it. I looked at soldiering as a combination of aptitude and the
Access to the right training but most importantly ones attitude when when getting thrown into into the shit
Reaction comes down to a fight or flight instinct. I believe we're born with that. It's not taught
But it is refined with training just because I can run 30 kilometers with a backpack
Backpack doesn't mean I'm a better soldier than the next guy or vice versa a soldier prepares for the fight
And it doesn't stop
Um
Continuing this guard duty. I was partnered with
Sergeant Chief Dilashapel
Who might found to be smart and very easy going his father in fact had spent time in a military prison for his part in the Algerian push
Pooch
I turn 28
There's no cake or celebration just more guard duty and maybe the runs
Oh yeah
When our three months in Brazville were up a replacement team arrived but several months later we returned the same job
This time though the reins had transformed the city into a lush mix of vegetation the neighborhood around the
Cassada Gawl
had been clean of rubble and garbage as we drove down the road. I saw that shops and bars had sprung up a long side
Brazville was alive once more people were drinking and listening to loud music soccer fields were full of kids and adults playing
What a difference a few months of relative calm in the city make these were happier times
We the monotony so now you're on this deployment. There's much more peaceful with the monotony physical activity
He was the only way for us to keep saying and burn off plenty of negative energy
Ursa who had been become a good friend boxed prior to joining Legion and he was my coach and sparring partner for the duration of the tour
So you're getting your boxing on
Brazville stabilized and we were free to visit the city when we weren't on duty. Ursa, Smitty, Smitty and I took that opportunity
one evening as everyone did and
Again, you talk about what what what young men do
As with most short-term remedies alcohol in these nighttime diversions led to problems sergeant prejent
While returning from town late one evening made a condescending comment to say lick
to Salak who's on guard duty at breakfast the following morning
Prejints black eye was a topic of great discussion. It wasn't long before cap martin warned all of us
That if something like this happened again both participants were being flown back to Calvary and charged regardless of who is at fault
This made me start to consider my life long term
30 years of age was just around the corner did I want to be a Legioner for the better part of it
I wasn't convinced that I did to Russian made mill 24 hind gun ships
Hired by the local government had flown and flown by foreign pilots appeared over the Casabagal every few days
I always made an effort to get out of the grass field and watch them fly over the upper portions of the fuselage were painted in jungle camo
The underbelly was light blue and they made a hell of a racket one afternoon as I stood looking up at one fly over the low level
I thought to myself I want to fly helicopters
I'll last month passed without further fistacuffs and we were eventually replaced for me
It could have happened soon enough
And then you're on leave you're snowboarding
Now you start planning my Legion exit strategy. I completed the administrative application
Process for the Vancouver Island helicopters flight training program in Victoria British Columbia
So that lasts trip down there you're feeling like you're done. Yeah, I think I can see the repetitive type
You start looking at your peers at the job. I could see that it was become repetitive the lack of
Actress is obviously having its effects that other guys are
Getting on each other's case
Do I want to be an NCO is that something that I want to do with the rest of my life because you can see your peers what you know what they're gonna go through and basically you can see your
Your career in front of you just watching the other guys and I figured that at that at that age
It was time to make a choice. I was still young enough
to make a change
but
You know getting on that I need to do so sooner than later
So I made the made the call. What was that term you told me earlier about
Someone that's unfit for return to civilian yeah, you know, see you so what is that translate to directly?
It would be incapable of civilian life so if you say basically spend too much time in the system
You just will survive out in
Civilian world institutional. Yeah institutionally it's exactly so
You know at that point I'm about coming up in six years
I have options. That's I'm lucky. You know I'm Canadian. I can go home. There's lots of lots of stuff
What's the retirement for
It was 15 years
It's not a huge chunk of money and yourself to work after that and that's definitely not a factor
Even after eight years. I think you recover all your taxes that you paid into the system so you get a chunk of change
They had offered me to go down to Jebudi to be an instructor on their art applyers
Command of course which was tempting
But
I knew he was tempting well I mean bro
Yeah, no fair one, but you know it was but that would have got me to the eight years so I would have had a chunk of money
Which would have helped with the flight train it's instructor duty which I'm sure is I would actually exactly but at that point I had made my mind up and
Offer I was I was out
Which was tough you feel like you know you're
They've put the time and effort I as I mentioned you know they obviously get you trained up a time and effort and
You got friends you got friends. Yeah, you feel like I'm a woman out on a guy's at her count on you
But
There's life to more to more to life than than that
Yeah, there is kind of crazy it's kind of hard to see that when you're in
You are doing a
Demonstration jump on camera room day and your parents were actually there and
I wanted to bring this point up because that evening you you go for like a dinner and
There's a lot of veterans there and you say this the veteran Legionnaires are the Indo-China and Algeria campaigns
In post-second World War France German POWs were given the option of joining the Legion and this influx had far reaching influences on the organization to this day
Reps second company song is the former vermark
Marching song Adlevice
It was sung several times during the night and brought up emotions for our veteran guests
During the evening some of them shared their experiences recounting past exploits and vivid detail others just listened content to sit
Among fellow Legionnaires paratroopers again
As German paratrooper major Rudolph Bulmer said
The secret of a paratrooper success can be summed up in three words comradeship a spree decor and efficiency
Yeah, those are the real Legionnaires in the China Algeria
Previously obviously yeah, I'm like tough tough guys so yeah, and yeah, some of them
We're just happy to be monks peers again and not say much and enjoy their wine or whatever
Others would share stories but I definitely respected the history. Yeah, that's just the fact that
Post-second World War II German POWs are meant that fought to the death or almost to the death against France
And now they're getting told up yep if you want to join the Legion come on over exactly and there's a lot of wordage for example
Octong is used all the time
Yeah, there's tons of German words that are in the
Legion vernacular and all that you use and that's from them. Yeah, that's neat and they had you know obviously good soldiers
So they brought them with them a lot of good tools
Yeah, sure
You go on here. I passed before captain Desmoulet
Not long afterwards and was asked if I was resigning. I needed to confirm yes or no
I do we informed captain Desmoulet that I wasn't extending past the six-year mark
I had given a lot of thought and I told him that I had applied to be a Canadian helicopter
I applied to a Canadian helicopter flight training program and that I've been accepted which was true
Six years in the Legion wasn't something you just walk away from easily nevertheless
I felt I needed to move on and then he told the company captain the same thing and he's the one that offered you the commando course
Correct, which you didn't expect but standing in that office my kept me at my side my pole to move on was stronger
I was almost 29 and at a crossroads. I respectfully declined the captain accepted my choice
It had to move he went on to lead the regiment when they jumped into Mali
Oh wow Timbuck to don't go and wrote the Ford on the book
Which gives it it's legit. You'll be a general here. He's doing a reason. That's on the right track. Yeah
We have to have him on the podcast at some point. There you go
Continuing on again jumping for a little bit of his time to close this chapter on my life in the Legion
The following morning this is after you kind of got back and you're getting psychled out the following morning as
Promo orders I passed before captain Desmoulet
So am I saying that right? Demo Demo and
My thought I was nailing it to close I threw it like a little something on it. I thought I was doing all right
Not even close. Demu and
He gave me a GCP section plaque and wish me good luck. I said goodbye to my teammates and wish them a safe
But operational future. That's a freaking great line
I wish them a safe but operational future
If I like I was betraying them somewhat, but everyone has to make choices and I made mine
I boarded the ferry in Bastia on August 31st
2000 leaving behind Corsica
It had been my home for five years. I'd miss it in the days. I spent swimming along its beaches
Hiking and running in the wooded trails skiing the carved mountains
Driving the narrow roads and embracing Corsica's unique approach to life
It was a place I wouldn't forget anytime soon
Arriving where my journey had started six years ago as a younger man with less with a less
worldly outlook and experience. I joined a group of 25 other legionaires from various regiments
They were also going
Civil in a few days. We were subjected to final medical and more administrative protocols before presenting
ourselves in the offices of a Colonel. He asked if I was certain about my decision to leave the legion
It felt like a lifetime ago that I stood in front of that white washed three-story building
Steering at the words Lazyopotria, Nostra. Well, not September day in 1994, almost six years ago
My hand hovered over the push button doorbell as I hesitated unsure if I could commit to what lay ahead
Today, however, my resolve was firm
And then you go forward that day finally arrived one by one. We entered the office of the legions commanding on commanding general
And presented ourselves his office was quite large so most of the time was spent walking to and from the spot where we were to present ourselves
It was a quick yes or no sir affair the commanding general wished me good luck and that was it
Our group was taken to the Legion Museum to see Captain Dan Hughes
So that right don't you don't use wooden hand and you tell that story. It's a great story about Captain Dan's you and his wooden hand and
It's historical significance and we finished up by joining the general for a group photo in front of the monument for the dead
When I got back to the barracks, I took off my uniform for the very last time and changed into my civilian clothes with my bags packed
I walked the regiment walked to the regiment's front gate
Perhaps a little faster than normal. I had a train to catch
I presented my authorization slip to the duty sergeant at the front gate looked down at my new light blue nikes and walked outside
I was a civilian once again
Boom boom that's a rap. That's a rap
You uh I thought that was a rap when I read I was like I was like okay, that's a good place to end the podcast
But I actually I got to go a little bit more
Um, I mean there's more yeah, yeah, yeah, no, but that is that is that is a rap. I mean obviously
That's a rap on a huge part of your life and something that's left a huge impact on you
I always remember cleaning out the final bits of my operational gear from my locker loading it into my van and driving off base for the last time and thinking well
That was a stuff and I spent well kind of like you spent six years based out of course
I spent 18 out of 20 years based in corn auto California and really probably
Most of those years in like a span of like three or four buildings that were all right next to each other
So a vast majority of my career was in these three or four buildings and that's where I checked out of and left
Not easy to do no
Um, and thank you for your service by the way you mentioned on the card. No, that was a that was an honor
Um
Here you say before I return to Canada. I needed to pay my respects after several hours on the train and a short taxi ride ride
I arrived in the village of
Riviers
Approved approved
Here I walked the length
249 headstones at the Canadian war cemetery
We're Canadian soldiers who fell at Normandy had been laid to rest on its rolling hills
I looked at the soldiers names and ages and was humbled by their sacrifice
I then walked along Juno Beach where my paternal grandfather landed on June 6th
1944 D-Day
Not far away was sword beach where my maternal grandfather drove his Sherman tank
Off the boat only a few days later on that day more than a half a century later
I was probably the never of my family's military heritage and Canadian history
On my flight back to Canada
I wasn't celebrating my return home my future was uncertain but the legions system D
And that's that stands for a demared demared which means shit, right?
Meredith shit, they married is more like figured out. Yeah, that okay, so married means shit
Yeah, and de-married means it's basically work shit out correct
Within weeks I started flight training in Victoria, British Columbia
Adjusting civilian life took time. There were no more whistles or night jumps over the med over Mediterranean island
The uncertainty of employment and novelty of paying bills were my new reality
You must save a lot of money in the legions since you don't have to pay for anything
No, I think you probably take advantage of your time off and spend more than
God, you're just the richest man, but I did I had enough I sent money home my dad was wise enough to
Help me and invested and it paid for my helicopter training which was a chunk. So yeah, I was able to
Finance the exit stretch another good section here
Talk about your grandfather. I didn't ask my grandfather enough about his experience at the time
I felt that he would share more if you really wanted to discuss these things sadly
He passed and my hero was lost and his memoir
Entired entitled an amateur soldier my grandfather doesn't say much about den bmp
However, he wrote any kind of flying in 1954 was a novel to me, but first class on an air France was something else again
I was served a hot toddy of brandy and milk by a super sturdist and delicious meals are things I long remember
I guess that after years of war your immediate priorities change
Why focus on the negatives my grandfather also wrote
People often ask veterans at what feelings they have when they know that they survived the horrors of a
dreadful war
Surprisingly enough a good many answer a sense of guilt
Roger
Yeah, can I comment on?
Absolutely so
Before going to the Legion obviously I'd seen pictures of the rep jumping in indembi and food which is where the regiment the rep was
Decimated or the precursor to the rep
And those you know that history those pictures were something that were definitely a big part of me joining
When I was going to flight school and I would go and have lunch heard dinner with my grandparents
He mentioned that he had flown into the demmen who
But a week after the capitulation of the French and he was there as a two-i-c for the precursor to the UN
So that blew me away that
I don't there's a connection there, but just the fact that you know I was taken by the mnf who I go and serve in the French one legion
And my grandfather had actually been there you know week after the war at end or the
That particular battle it ended and not just for whatever reason that just
Really hit home
I don't know if that was it meant anything but it was just
It was a big part of
Yeah, let me think about what he
fought yeah, was I knew going to join the rep and the
And he knew that they had been
Desmated so at the beginning he was you know a wise maiden say much you just said if you go there make sure you go on for the right reasons and
And
Represent your country well, but he didn't go into because he did have some some ideas on the
On the what the legion was based on his experience at the mnf who
And then when I was you mentioned that was writing letters those letters were going to him when I was in
Central Africa at the end he as I did learn more about the legion and respect it a little more and got a better picture of what I was doing
So as a result he was more open about some of his experiences during the war as he felt that
I think is my small taste albeit nowhere near what my grandfather experience but I had that small taste of
As a soldier can you can talk to another soldier when you we've been similar scenarios so did he tell you more about world war two once you came back
He did
Not much detail
And how about his book his book yeah, so he was doing his he was actually doing his degree in history and writing his memoirs and
And to mention there he hadn't can you give me a copy by all means 100% yeah, I'm also I have it
All chippity if you want and if you promised to
Sure you will set it back
Is that few copies? Yeah, unless I could probably figure something else, but if you want I can strip you my
Anyway, oh, we'll get a figure it out figure it out
He he hadn't kept a guard or in when he was writing his memoirs
He said to me, Joff any advice just write down your memories now. Obviously, we don't you'll regret it
So I took him up on that and that's when I wrote everything down
Yeah, that's how you get dates
Yeah, dates about this book and accurate exactly and there was obviously more after the fact you know the research and
Friends helping and then getting all the information
I needed but he he was the precursor to me putting this story to the paper and it sat for a decade
Like it was 150,000 words on a word document
No respect for the English language or punctuation or anything. It was just raw
Verbal diarrhea and over you know the decade with aging experience and you know things came up
My perspective changed and nothing came out that was representative of a legion area
Since legion error and I kept them waiting and then I thought hey, maybe it's on me
So I started putting in the the time and effort to work on the story and it took a chunk of time
But I'm proud of the the end result and the fact that the legion approved its
Narrative yeah, I have a forward from obviously my former commanding officer, which is a first for a book of its type
It gives it its legion and the messy and then the fact that welfare lawry was able to or willing to
The public shit that was too factors. I needed I needed the leases background or the backing and then a respectable publisher to give it that
Because then I knew that it was a good story if welfare lawry was willing to put their name on it
I knew that it was it was sound and I had help
I'm a soldier not a
So they well came out great. I mean, that's a fantastic book
Yeah, you continue on a little bit here flying helicopters commercially meant that initially limited opportunities were afforded to low-time pilots
Along with low wages so in slower winter seasons
I work as security contractor for a British forum based in London, England supporting exploration
Efforts in North Africa and later government contracts and I rack an African stand
So you went on the contractor circuit for a while too. I did yeah, yeah, that had to be
Interesting as well many legionnaires not a ton the Algeria stuff. Yeah, armor group. They no longer use this their bought-out by G4S
But they would hire a lot of ex-legionnaires because of the obviously the French the English
Supporting Halliburne oil had quite a few regs in in Algeria
So you'd be there as an operation Lee is all coordinator basically just the rigs because of the terror
Misissue in Algeria they would be secured by the Algerian army so you'd just be the liaison between the army and the client
So that was about it, but when Iraq kicked off
It was more an interest in seeing what else how else things were done
That was the the interest going there. What years were you there?
It was late or really early 2004 so it was fresh just when
So when you were there yeah, so initially it was
Kellibrande Root had gotten the because we looked after KBR in Alger
They're at their part of Haliburn oil
oil winds wind effect
Dick Cheney I think that was a see or it they got the logcat contract to build all the bases for the American military in Iraq
The defects supply all the fuel so we went over there initially we had three floors at the Sheridan
And we hired whole bunch of local nationals and the idea was to train them up on close protection and then when the executives from
KBR came in and went to all these different spots we would we would take them
So that was my initial introduction to and at that point 2004 things were where really
That busy for people on the ground there was no idea issue
And then I came back the next year and things were a little busier and baggeded and we're doing low profile PSD
So at that point
There was quite a few companies that were a little bit aggressive and they're
Approach or the rules of engagement and as you know
Better than I the bathers or the
There's whatever they were they decided to go after the PSD teams
So what we were doing is we were doing a low profile PSD so we had just buy local
Number CDs BMWs and we tried to blend in so it'd be helpful
Yeah, exactly just try to blend in and they would be two expats and Iraqis and
We had our DOD badges like we're all and we'd have a nice
Union jack classified in the
Front with us and if
When you're patrols pull that beside us or got for a bit black water or another
PSD team like that we'd be on the windows right away because if they look down and see in Iraq
You're with an AK on the left or not a guy's question. So yeah, I did that and then I was up into Crete for a while and then F-Ganis and kicked off and
I did that for a full year down and and helmet there. What were you doing there?
There they had again our group got the
The contract for the British embassy FCO foreign Commonwealth office and the Brits had helmet
Province so this they sent down an advisor to the governor helmet. So we're embedded with the
Initially was the the Parage and then the Rome Reigns
And we just basically we had a small compound within their PRT which is a little base they had in the center of town and then we had a house
Attached to the governor's compound
And we just the our client's name was Tom you just take him you had a floor underneath the governor's
Floor office and basically he's just back and forth taking him already had to go
We'd fly out to some of the areas sometimes with the Brits. So you know at that point garage was going off
Sangin so there's a lot of you know efforts going on just figure that out. So I did that for a year
And I started to yeah, I missed the flying I had been there seen it. It was interesting good experience but
Kind of felt mad enough and went back to flying full time again
So
Actually, I did want to when I read the closing this book I wanted to at least bring it home because I think it's I think it's I think it's awesome
And so here's what's going on you're in France
You're with your kids
You meet with some of your old Legion friends and again. I'm not gonna cover every the detail that you give is great in the book
But
You know you they the old Legion friends kind of invite you to
Yeah, the seal yeah, the seal I invite you to see the regiment in in Calvy and
So you're gonna drive there with your children and you're thinking you're gonna show them the regiment and it says this
Driving the final stretch of course goes close to a road
We descended into Calvy Bay on the same road. I had taken all those years ago as a young Legioner
After several are we there yets I told my kids shut your mouth and put on your keptis
Approaching the regiments front gate. I slowed right down looking into its parade square and passing
The emotions I felt at that exact moment are difficult to explain
We drove past checked into our Calvy hotel and spent the rest of the day
Swimming at the beach the next morning after some delicious croissants
Orange juice and two strong cafe crams for me
At one of the citadel cafes we drove to the regiment
Parked outside the regiments gates noting the new rep and Sydney a painted on its water tower
I asked my kids what they wanted to do
Visit the regiment or go snorkeling at the beach
Perhaps they could sense the answer I was looking for the rep was in my past and the regiment was busy doing real work
My focus now was on my son Carter and daughter Kyle and snorkeling
Showed to Carter and co long live the Legion
And that's how you wrap it up and I thought that that was that idea of
Yeah, long live the Legion but at the same time you got your new focus now
Which is your son and your daughter and I thought that that's a a lot of people have a hard time doing that
Shifting their focus from their past to their present and then to their future
So I thought that that was an awesome way to
Tie it together and put things in perspective. I appreciate that
So
What
We've been going for a long time
But but before we we do wrap it up completely
Let's talk a little bit about what you're up through now. Sure. So I know you got you've got a risk mitigation firm
Yes, so I flag a helicopter's commercially for a company called Mustang out of Alberta
So that's my full time and what kind of helicopter flights of those we do firefighting in the summer
This summer I did repel so the Alberta government has a repel program where they initial attack
They repelled into the fires
In fact, they just canceled the but we do that and then winters we helly ski so when I go back
Oh interesting yeah, so that starts whereabouts is this rebel stoked
Yeah, we got four to a five and four a stars busy and we do that all year and actually the season started yesterday
That's what I did my my training last week and when I get home be back into it
And then yeah, as you mentioned I'm a partner in a risk mitigation company
Two of the names in the book their partners in the company, but we're just you know a small
It's a Ravenhill risk control the name is the VC that's in the family and
George A Raven George a Ravenhill one of eight recipients have the metal taken back to sad story
It's a definitely he went on you know that's the bore war where he won the VC went on the fight in the first war
So he's completely awarded the VC word the VC shot through the arm and back then as I mentioned
He wanted to eight he was came back from the
Woffley suffered and he was in like a penal regimen for some of his transgressions whenever
I think he was on the sauce drinking and they weren't paying him is his monthly wage that he felt they were supposed to be and
He went any stole two pens. I think it was 12 pens worth of steel in Birmingham and it was basically the cell to pay for food for his family
And he was caught and for that they took the metal back
He went on to they had to send four of his kids to orphanages and
U.S. and Canada and he died at my age
destitute sad story
But you know a brave braze soldier did his
Did his thing for his country and paid the pay the price so I used yeah Ravenhill is the name out of respect
So there's eight people that have had their VC's revoked
Take him back because all the same they changed no different over time, but some people have had their
Victorious crosses revoked
Correct, yeah, if they have they changed that back and give it a back to him now?
It's in the
The museum in Birmingham the regiment museum that he was part of they have it
But they but it's he recognized now. Yeah, as a he's a V-Sitter 100% yeah, he did the DW
Yeah, of course, obviously
Okay, and then also you've started off a
PTSD organization
Yeah, well, it's yeah, Legion engineered
It's early days with a next couple months here. He'll be a foundation and the idea is just to sell a parallel online
To support veteran affairs PTSD type efforts
Regardless of where the soldiers come from the idea being if there's more sales from the US
We would send it to veteran affairs program in the US if it was more from the UK, Canada whatever
But yeah, the efforts more just to get awareness out there. I was recently invited to
Be the guest speaker at my old regiment the role was spent for regiments of their senior NCO dinner
And yeah, it seemed like PTSD just ramp it. I don't I don't know what the reason for they had a couple young guys
I came back from Afghanistan and decided they couldn't take it anymore and shot themselves and I was like, you know
I was looking for
Something to do that wasn't just all about
You know, we have the business, but it's that's about making money. It's just selfish at the end of the day and
This idea of Legion and Generity had been there for long as I can know what one on I just
Put those two together, so that's the objective is to build it and hopefully
You know if it's just a small amount of money, but at least it's something that I can do to give back
And certainly in all of a CPSDS, it's history in the family, so yeah, that's the objective and that's Legion and Generity dot com that is correct
And then the other one is Raven Hill risk control
Ron Hill risk control and we're licensed security company in B.C. Yeah, is that is that only in British companies that
Well, Canada Canada, but we we're mostly domestic. We support
Couple projects. There's a company that has a gold mine and we facilitate the movement of gold
Right to be
There's an NHL team that uses us when the owners fly over to France for example to go to the
Cance film festival though
Will you use us for our networking because we can reach out from guys that we're not during our our courses and say hey, you know
You interested in working for the couple weeks and so yeah, we have that that ability to reach on
Network with the people that we've met from our time in which is our success
Yeah, and then on Instagram is that your main social media?
You know, I'm I'm new that was a learning curve for the book
I didn't have a Facebook before I fell
Yeah, Joel Struters for like a space book and Instagram and then there's at early gen engineering for you
Absolutely an engineered at Joel Struters correct and what's at a pal
WL you press yes, so that's just for the book for the character
Let's focus on at Joel Struters. I that's would be my recommendation. I appreciate it
Just because you'll write another book or you'll do something else and that that just for the book
I'll just focus on Joel Struters at Joel Struters
Eck or you got anything else you still play hockey. I don't you know no
No, I went to I had a midlife and I went back and played rugby
Yeah, I did you get hurt. Oh, you got hurt. You might kid say why you doing this
I blew up my lateral see okay. Yeah, so I did both of you by the way not doing that though, but my little brother
Please this football game. We support football. Yeah, please this football game. He's like you know 30 something in which I guess now doesn't seem that old but
Compared to high school, you know, they're different times but he thinks he's back in the game right?
Terz is peck
Yeah, so yeah, man. No, it's a rugby to this bold
It was boy. It was yeah, not a wise decision. Yeah, man. It taught me pretty quick that
You're no longer there
As life does he'll check you right on Joel you got any other final thoughts no sir
Maybe if
Final things is some humbled for the opportunity. I obviously have watched your podcast. I seen the guests on here and
Just to be among some of the names and stories and medals
That have been in this chair. I'm I'm more than humble
So I appreciate the opportunity and
The objective of the book was to educate
If people are interested in the subject matter and they want to know the truth
It certainly
tries to do that for
And that is
Oh, thank you. Yeah, well
Thanks coming on the book is fantastic. I really I really loved reading it
um
And thanks for writing that book. Thanks for coming on here. Obviously sharing your story. Thanks for your
Thanks for your sacrifice
You know and you mentioned that
What the Legion does around the world is like it's real stuff and it is protecting freedom and it is protecting innocent people and it is
Protecting
Democracy and so thanks for your service there. Thanks for your services a contract as well
Because that's an unsung position and look there's all kinds of crazy things that happen with contractors and
There's there's bad views of them a good views of them but I know this
It's a hard job
It's a job that people don't want to do
It's a huge risk when you do it and what you're doing is trying to help
Forward the positive things in the world America's goals the freedoms goals around the world
So thanks for what you did there so thanks for supporting America and our allies both as a contractor and
Of course, I guess I'll close with
Long live the Legion. Thanks sir. Appreciate thanks for coming on man my pleasure
And with that
Joel Strothers has left the building
Something some great insight on the Legion from someone who lived it and
We are definitely lucky too
here from these
Men in person live and
Speaking alive
I'm doing some live gigs
January 6 in DC
I'm going to be January 11th in Austin
I'm going to be January 16th in New York
I want to be January 20th in LA
I'm going to be January 27th in Seattle, Washington and we need January 28th in SF
Decisive engagement
I am going to talk words and thoughts
Some of these gigs are already sold out
I have seen that there are tickets available on the secondary market. Do you know what that is echo channels?
Like a scalping yes, yes, so there are tickets available on the secondary market
prices are getting jacked
On the secondary market so if you're in one of the cities
You want to come go check it out because otherwise you might get
Shifted onto the secondary market and you're going to pay a higher price point
So check it out now
Today awesome to have Joel on talk about the Legion many times today
I used the term long live the Legion I made that statement
And that's good. I'm supporter long live the Legion. What about us?
How do we make our lives longer and better let me ask you that echo Charles what he got?
Well, easy the quick short answer is health
health
What does that mean no health?
Stress that's a good on stretch man stress management
I mean I just asked me on Twitter. Can you get me an example that's not physical where stress will will help you?
Not physical like not physical like okay, I get it if I work out. I'm gonna get stronger if I run hard
I'm gonna get healthier whatever yeah, and he said can you give me an example where
Where it's not physical but stress helps you
Yeah, I would all kind of stress helps you in the same way you can overload it. I mean I'd use the very simple example of
Speaking in front of people which is stressful
For some people and if it's stressful for you and you do it it'll become less stressful over time
So stress is good yeah, you basically the the basic formula is stress and then recovery from stress with healthy recovery
Sleep physically yes, yes, and we're gonna sleep exactly right and we'll just call it recovery effect
Re-correct recovery from the stress
Equals strength yes, and that goes for a non-physical as well. Yeah 100% but and the same goes inversely
If you don't have any stress at all as like if you don't have any exercise, so sure you're more comfortable
You're more you know these things
Let's stress but when life so unless you leave and let's see looking at a bunker
When the stress of life you yourself with the recorder not no you see them say unless these things all that stuff
Yeah, all those things but you can't think of any right now
Dude
When they come into your life you're not gonna be able to deal with them. You can be weak. They're gonna crumble you potentially
Same goes for if you don't effectively recover from stress. That's why people like non-physical stress people always
Recart it is like oh my gosh my life is stress because most times when you have too much stress with or chronic stress
The same thing is like chronic exercise, but I can't exercise all day every day. I got a rest from that stuff
You gotta recover from rest between sets all that stuff so the same kind of deal
Except for when people say oh, it's just stressful. It's like they they they look at it as a as a different kind of stress
Even though at the end of the day, it's essentially same thing. We need stress
You know in order to get better. You stress one good form of stress that you can participate in and it's very rewarding
It's you too. See and you just in a way is kind of the opposite of what we'd regard like stress like
People gonna do it to release stress, but technically that's not what stress is like stress is just basically a sort of like a
Resisting right yeah
Yeah, and there's certainly resistance in due to you. Yes, and it is resistance that will make you stronger better smarter faster
Just better better in every single in every single capacity. Oh, yeah, man
So you and you you'll do this every once in all you'll just have this emotional outbursts
This is you in this way all the mats of just no
Here's the thing me saying emotional outbursts is like it's kind of misleading like you know when you think of your emotional
I'll press it's like a bad thing almost
But you'll just break out out of nowhere and be like I lose love. Do you get to that's any emotional
So like yeah, like in New York you said that but probably feel that I think that in my head so much even though like
Even not even necessarily when I'm doing it a lot of times when I'm done doing it
So crazy how this exists
It is out there crazy is the funniest thing yeah
It's weird like certain times you can go to jiu-jitsu and be in such a good mood
You can see yourself behaving in almost like a weird child this way because you're so happy like a little excited child
Yes, yeah, that is that is a really happens statement
Yeah, anyway, so if you're not doing jiu-jitsu just do some jiu-jitsu just try man bring a friend bring a friend
That's actually a good way to maximize bring your friend sure your husband or life or whatever true. It's a good way
Anyway when you do it you're gonna need a key best-y in the world. Actually is an origin geek
You get these at originmain.com
So why is it the best in the world? Well one because it's made America
You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you put that number one
because there's some people that say number one
It's the best functionality
Just strength
Performance it's the best for some people that's number one and that's a strong case
You can build a strong case without all day long. I actually support that case
If you wanted to pick one reason and say hey, here's why you should get an origin geek look
I don't care about anything else. I care about jiu-jitsu. I want the best possible you can get okay
I'm getting an origin geek. Yeah, there happens to be a bonus on top of that
That is made America. Yeah, that's kind of like the roots to the whole scenario
You seem saying because all the things about my selfish like
Benefits of having this game wearing this gear whatever sure there's some front-end stuff front-end benefits are huge
Huge but when you talk about made in America American economy and American industry all this stuff
This is all going on, you know
As roots of this scenario. It's the same. So yeah, man. I dig it
What ever way you want to look at it?
All all leaving all go one further as far as the selfish benefits of these origin geese
So I'm cleaning out my closet literally yesterday. Did you forget? I don't know. I don't know really recently and I have an old geese in there
Where I put off like man look at that you know like oh, I remember this. Yeah, I put it on
I was oh
I would never wear this thing though. It was borderline tortures
So where it is bad. All right, so get an origin geey for the performance and by the way
Yes when you get one you are supporting this podcast most important when you get a geey from a support
Perspective you're supporting yourself and you're supporting the United States of America and it's economy
We're rebuilding a community
Plus you can if you don't necessarily want to wear a geey to the supermarket to the club
It's for as clubs go. Yeah, you don't want to wear a geey there. You can wear origin t-shirts
You can wear origin sweatshirts. You can wear origin jeans by the way
Pete's mad at me
Okay, because I announced Delta 68 lightweight jeans with a little bit of stretch in them now
The all origin jeans have a little bit of stretch in them, but the are
Super comfortable little lightweight because I'm not a person that gets cold legs
I know it's weird and I know it's a dichotomy that I want heavyweight
Sure heavyweight sweatshirt heavyweight hoodie lightweight jeans, but that's how I am
Here I am so check out the jeans and also we got supplements up there
Which are important big time especially for longevity long list right true supplements big time to keep you in the game so
and
I'm not gonna tell you all well damn even though we already know but I'm older than I was before
And I can I don't want to say I surprised myself. I'm not saying that but I'm very happy with where I am physically
Capability wise like able to
You mean what will let's say we're not mad how about that? We're not mad at your content
Where capability wise, you know, I can do essentially the same things as far as I can remember that I was doing
Back in the day
When back in it
You see what I'm saying yeah, so and of course
Because of joint warfare, krill oil, super and actually what I take almost not every day, but like really often even though I don't
I'm called needed is cold or yeah, they mean it's nice to have that little kicker
Yeah, that little cold war
Kicker well this ingredients are beneficial just generally general benefits. Yeah, yeah good good
So also discipline and discipline go in the can by the way, which you can just crack open and almost any moment
But pretty much anyone pretty much anyone and then there's a discipline go the powder
Which is a good little prejudging
scenario oh wait, it's not discipline go just discipline and and my personal favorite flavor of any drink
By the way, is jockel bomber
Just tasty and then of course you got extra
Let's call it protein
Let me ask you this if you're gonna have protein. Would you want it to taste like cardboard?
A
B salt water or sea a dessert which one would you want?
Yeah, okay real suffix my idea now
Get yourself some milk and get some warrior kid milk for your children don't give them poison
actual poison don't
Give them something tasty
Agreed anyway origin main.com this where you can get all teeth. Did you mention why too? No, no, yeah
It is winter time
So I need that little warm hitter. Get yourself some jockel weight tea
All right, yeah, sorry with just today was like well this jockel weight tea is good
It's like and I didn't really know what she meant because you know
She's been in the business my lovely wife
Because we've been drinking
This stuff for a long time
So it's almost like she had an emotional out
Kind of like the jockel weight tea so good actually just so happens that I got the new shipment in
So she might have been out of the game for a little bit you seem saying and then she gets you revisited it and then was like
Had that I got to say it is refreshing the cans refreshing
More refreshing remember when you were a kid and you drink gatorade? Yes, and it kind of left that syrup
He tasted your mouth and it's not refreshing
Sure
Was it refreshing
It depends on the circumstances, but yeah, well, you're not going to need any circumstantial
Issues going on track open the jockel weight tea 100% refreshed 100% refreshed yeah under all circumstances all circumstances covered
I dig it also jockel is a store and it's called jockel store
We're sticking with jockel store. I think great creative name jockel store.com. This is where you can get more ash guards
More representative of the path specifically also
You know sure turties discipline equals freedom stuff if you want to represent while you're on this path
Never ending perpetual
Cat you can get a official death core
Oh, yeah big good
You know jockel store.com
Check it out. Yeah, man. If you want something get something you get some work. It's stuff on there as well
Yeah, good way support yourself represent all that also
Subscribe to this podcast which if you haven't by now
Then you may want to actually just check yourself into some sort of rehabilitation program to make sure that you're okay
Mentally because if you haven't some have you've listened to
7,000 hours or whatever it is of this podcast you haven't hit some try-biotte your your
You're really avoiding commitment. Yeah, it's right. You're not really committed
You need to get committed so anyways. Yeah, subscribe to the podcast
On whatever medium you listen to podcast on yeah
Also
The only podcast in this whole scenario okay grounded podcast if you're interested in something a little bit more loose free flowing
I was gonna say magical but that doesn't make sense
But you know little little less structured less heavy for sure definitely less heavy. Yeah, we have not
You have not cried on the grounded podcast yet
Which isn't saying much right it is saying something
All right, so thank you just for that
Technically it is true so I'm cried on the worry keep that case either
In on the word no you haven't been on it, but you've been listening and I've seen you get close
Well on the word. I could quite well. That's even close
Yeah, that's classified but nonetheless it where you get podcasts does exist and that's a good one too for the kids and for yourself and by the way
There are
four new warrior kid podcasts out at this time
Very good. Yes for new warrior kid podcasts out at this time
Good, so sorry it takes so long, but there they are and you can get those and also speaking of warrior kids
Don't forget forget to get yourself some warrior kids soap from Irish Oaks Ranch.com
Where young aiden a warrior kid is making soap on his farm in central California because that's what you do
You get to work and you make something that will help everyone in the world
Stay clean
Very true also you we have YouTube channel you're interested in the video version of what we're doing here
You're gonna see what Joel looks like
You see what Joel looks like if you see what echo looks like in apparently echo
Doesn't look like what he sounds like in the on a unlikely event
You want to see what it looks like yes. We have YouTube channel also some excerpts on there if
Maybe you're not at the mood to watch the whole 12 hour podcast
Sometimes yeah, you know, so we have really short excerpts that echo bags that are only like 27 minutes
Yeah, sure just you know sure in a couple a little bit
Cool in my opinion, please let us know via social media if you think an excerpt should be four minutes or
14 I'll say what I think and we all know what echo things and well I have my my
Opinion has been refined recently. What is it now focused on there is no time
Constraint or
Recommended guideline it's however long it takes to get an effective message across what I would like to see just a suggestion from my
Don't want to interfere with your business over there with what you do
Really taking so much time and effort to cut out a 19 minute section and just put it up there
What if you just edited it down so it was like here's the point here's the question here's the point
What if it was three minutes on well?
Wouldn't that be more like an excerpt?
I think it's all excerpt well technically what does that sort of mean just means like a part of something so it can be a 19 minute part fine
If the clue if a point takes 19 minutes to talk about I don't think the point takes 19 minutes in most cases
So I'm just saying reassess is all I'm saying
Let's not let's not let our ego get in the way
Make a good decision. What is the answer?
Did you resty all I know so we're gonna keep moving forward and
Don't try to put the best of your video to subscribe to YouTube channel so you can watch 19 minutes excerpts. Thank you
But there's more stuff on there
Anyway, yeah, if you want we do if you want something shorter to listen to go to psychological warfare
It's an MP3 album. It has tracks
Where whatever moment of weakness you are experiencing I will personally come through your headphones and help you overcome that moment of weakness by
Speaking words into your ears and telling you to stay on the path
And don't forget if you need a
Visual representation of the path and a reminder to stay on it check out flip side-cam this dot com
Which is run by my brother the code of mine where he makes things
That are sometimes referred to as graphic art and you can hang them on your walls and they say things like good
Or get after it or discipline equals freedom or you can tell the code of what you want
As far as books go first of all the book that we covered today a pel Canadian in the French foreign Legion by Joel Strothers awesome book very cool
I left out so many
Good stories obviously, but it's a great book so you can pick that up click through the Amazon link also we got leadership strategy and tactic field manual
Which you can actually order
Now and you should order now because
If you don't win it finally gets released you go. Oh cool now I'm gonna order it and then
Amazon or Barnes and Noble will say oh cool yeah, we'll get it to you as soon as we get it which is gonna be in four weeks
Because of you
Actually because of me
I did a bad job of explaining to you how important it was it's my fault
It's my fault so right now what I'm trying to do is explain to you that if you don't order it you won't get it and then
If you do order it life will be good
Leader substratages and tactics field manual we got the way the warrior kid books three two and one all out
Teach your kids how to stay on the path we got the Mikey and the dragons
If you want your kids to learn the most basic
Foundational thing that they need to know as a kid how to overcome fear they can learn it right there
Mikey and the dragons incredible feedback on that book all the time it is not rare
That a grown human male or female
Crys while reading that book you you had an emotional first
Wasn't it it wasn't an outburst but wait your brother Jj was something was it your brother J Charles
Well same same kind of deal where's the operation there is an emotional what do you call it when the needle by loser
But you know so I can one of those situations. Yeah. Well
I think that when you have kids well when I say I think I believe
So far
That when you have kids like certain things will affect you differently, you know
So anytime it makes you think of your kids in the certain context or whatever like yeah
That's what it sort of induces so that's what it did
Simply put
And then we got this one it was freedom field manual
This is the book again. You know that you know the person you're not sure what to get them for Christmas
This is the book you get them for new years even better
You just go hey here you go. I got you this little book
These little reminder of what it's like to be on the path staying on the path
So that's discipline equals freedom field man. It will be audio version of that is actually an MP3
So you gotta go to
iTunes or Amazon music to get that and of course we have extreme ownership and
The dichotomy leadership the two books that I wrote with my brother Dave Babin
They are
Leadership books how to take the lessons that we learn on the battlefield and apply them to your business and your life
We also have a leadership consulting company. It's called
echelon front go to echelon front dot com if your company your business your team
needs to improve and dominate
They're gonna do it through leadership. That's what we do
So we will help you lead better which will internally too
Victory at all fronts
We have EF online which is a
Leadership training program. I used to be able to tell people oh you want some little advanced help with your leadership cool
Listen to my podcast
Because there's seven of them
It'll take you 14 hours
You know you got 14 hours to spare people though. Yeah, I can I can squeeze that in right now
It's like oh you want some leadership help cool listen my podcast it's seven hundred hours or whatever
I can't it's not specific enough now there's lessons in all of them so
EF online let's take the lessons
Condense them now distilled them down so people can go through them in a timely fashion eight hours
10 hours of all-mind training where you're actually the other thing is that the podcast
I know it feels like it might be interactive you might feel like you're sitting
In between me and echo
Right now listening maybe you want to chime in and tell echo like to make those excerpts a little bit shorter
You probably aren't thinking that
But you can't really interact with us
Except for on the inner website. Yes, but with the EF online you're actually putting leadership positions
You're you got to make decisions you got to figure out what the best call is if you make a bad call
You're gonna hear about it things are gonna go sideways if you make a good call you're gonna progress
So EF online
Check that out
EF online dot com and then we have the mustard dates coming soon
Leadership training event leadership training conference
Where we go next year
Believe the locations are
Dallas
Phoenix and
Orlando Florida dates to come check extreme ownership dot com and then of course we have EF Overwatch
and EF Legion these are platforms to take military personnel with leadership experience
I understand the principles that we talk about and place them into the civilian sector civilian companies civilian businesses
Go to EF Overwatch or EF Legion
To make that happen and if you want to communicate with us some more
Joel
Joel is actually
new to social media Joel strothers
You can find him on Instagram and Facebook Joel strothers at Joel strothers and then his
nonprofit is at Legion engineered and his website for that is at Legion
Is Legion engineered dot com and then he's got Ravenhill risk control dot com and of course
the two of us are on the interwebs as well
We're on jockelpontcast dot com
So if you want to check out that site and then on Twitter Instagram and on
Leaver divasage
Which is for book of face
Since good
That's good. I want to check that out echo is an echo trolls and I am at jockel will like and thanks once again
To Joel strothers for joining us and thanks to him for his service
As a contractor for his service in the French Foreign Leisure and it's all the Legionnaires out there past and present
And especially those that sleep at peace in their tombs. We salute all of you
Into the rest of the men and women around the world in uniform that protect the freedoms
We all hold sacred thanks to you and to our police law enforcement fire fighters paramedics and EMTs talked about you all today
Dispatchers corrections officers board a patrol secret service all first responders out there
Thank you for the sacrifices you make
to serve
Man and kind
To keep us safe and keep us protected and to everyone else out there
Let's remember the power of the Legionnaires code and
The parts of that code that applied all of us that discipline is our strength that courage and loyalty are our
Virtues that we have to display
dignified but modest behavior got a balance that dichotomy
That we have to take constant care of our physical form
That means we have to train rigorously
We have to remember that our mission is sacred
Your mission is sacred you carry it out until the end and you know you have a mission
You know you do
And whatever that mission is go out there
And get after it
And until next time
This is echo and jockel out